gateway groups qanon"
ey > w &

Concerto Feedback Group ee
October 8, 2020 - &

These changes are new, small inconveniences piled atop frustrating user-experience
decisions that Facebook has been making for more than a decade. But they are the latest
example of how Facebook tries to shape every user's experience through black box
algorithms—and how this approach harms not only individuals but the world at large.

This article has actionable feedback around (many of which we may already be taking action
upon):

+ Lack of Control: Seeing groups that are unsolicited (including groups they explicitly leftt),
choices for comment ranking not being sticky, likewise even intimate conversations being
chained outwards through community view.

+» Danger of Rabbit Holes: It discusses how while most are introduced to conspiracy theories LL

by word of mouth, recommendations engines and the chaining of content and communities m~
often reinforce the dangerous ideas or lead them far deeper.

SS

Quotes + Potential Action Items
LACK OF CONTROL

But those are groups that we, the users, sought out and joined. Unsolicited content from
other, unsubscribed groups is not always welcome. | myself noticed in recent weeks that
posts from groups | am not a member of appeared when | tried to use Facebook's
increasingly user-hostile app to engage with the handful of friends-and-family groups | do
regularly use. And those out-of-the-blue posts include content from two groups | explicitly
and intentionally left a month prior because they were making my life worse.

FOR CONG

| Having that kind of content also appear in your personal newsfeed (which has not yet been
rolled out to me) is apparently even worse. "It was creepier than | expected to see 'related
discussions‘ hyped next to a short comments thread between my mom and my brother
about her latest post," tech writer Rob Pegoraro (who has occasionally written for Ars)
tweeted after experiencing the new feature. (He added that Facebook's obsession with
engagement "needs to be shot into the sun," a sentiment with which | agree.)

* Doublecheck that at a minimum we're not recommending groups people have ' “**
* Consider intr ; sistinen tines - z Chats

REDACTED
"
ateway groups qanon
ana ine cnaining OT content ana COMMUNES

py word oF moutn, recommenaauions engines
often reinforce the dangerous ideas or lead them far deeper.

Quotes + Potential Action Items
LACK OF CONTROL

But those are groups that we, the users, sought out and joined. Unsolicited content from
other, unsubscribed groups is not always welcome. | myself noticed in recent weeks that

| posts from groups | am not a member of appeared when | tried to use Facebook's

| increasingly user-hostile app to engage with the handful of friends-and-family groups | do

| regularly use. And those out-of-the-blue posts include content from two groups | explicitly
and intentionally left a month prior because they were making my life worse.

| Having that kind of content also appear in your personal newsfeed (which has not yet been
rolled out to me) is apparently even worse. "It was creepier than | expected to see 'related
| discussions’ hyped next to a short comments thread between my mom and my brother
about her latest post," tech writer Rob Pegoraro (who has occasionally written for Ars)

_ tweeted after experiencing the new feature. (He added that Facebook's obsession with

| engagement "needs to be shot into the sun," a sentiment with which | agree.)

* Doublecheck that at a minimum we're not recommending groups people have left?

* Consider introducing a way to stop receiving in-feed unconnected content. This resonates
with me, IG has started showing follow recommendations in between stories. They provide
an option to see these recommendations less which | value the option to (although it
doesn't seem to be very effective at dialing it down at the moment)

« | think we may need some threshold on the original post before applying adding chaining to
it through CV. | can see how CV can feel different attached to a friends/family post vs. on a
group's or page's post. Maybe there needs to be a certain number people in a conversation
before CV is applied?

| Facebook at the same time has introduced a slew of tweaks to the user interface on both

| Web and mobile that make it significantly harder to promote high-quality engagement on
the platform, particularly in groups. First, all groups now sort by "latest activity" as their
default setting rather than by "recent posts." Sorting by "latest activity" drives users to

} Posts that already have comments—but every post is then sorted by "top comments," an

| inscrutable, out-of-sequence muddle that seems to have almost nothing to do with the
conversations themselves. Users can again choose to sort by "all comments" or "most

_ Tecent," but those choices do not stick. Whether by design or by flaw, the decis'~~ *~ ~-+

_ by recent posts isn't sticky, either, and you'll need to reselect it every single tin Chats

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
terre

Facebook at the same time has introduced a slew of tweaks to the user interface on both
Web and mobile that make it significantly harder to promote high-quality engagement on
the platform, particularly in groups First, all groups now sort by "latest activity” as their
default setting rather than by "recent posts." Sorting by "latest activity" drives users to
posts that already have comments—but every post is then sorted by "top comments," an
inscrutable, out-of-sequence muddle that seems to have almost nothing to do with the
conversations themselves. Users can again choose to sort by "all comments" or "most
recent," but those choices do not stick. Whether by design or by flaw, the decision to sort
by recent posts isn't sticky, either, and you'll need to reselect it every single time you post
a comment or navigate between posts.

Meaningful, thoughtful conversation—even in small, serious, well-moderated groups—has
become almost impossible to maintain. That, too, drives sniping, bickering, and extremism
ona small, conversational scale.

« Make choices on comment ranking sticky?

* Likewise how do we make sure the comments we are ranking aren't leading to more
polarized discourse? How can they still reflect the group norms and standards?

DANGER OF RABBIT HOLES (FROM AN ARTICLE LINKED WITHIN)

| But the Q believers | spoke with stumbled upon these incomprehensible ideas the old-

| fashioned way. They say they were indoctrinated (though they don’t use that term) by their

| parents, other family members, and friends, or introduced to the conspiracy through word-

| of-mouth, rather than via the algorithms that have received the most national attention.

| But word-of-mouth alone isn't enough. The ability of people sitting at home to follow the
online rabbit holes downward is critical. Moms are seeing an ever-changing web of

| trafficking conspiracy theories bounce around their circle of mom friends, like the

] debunked Wayfair conspiracy theory and USPS phishing text scam. The Jeffrey Epstein

| saga, a real-life case that involved an alleged sex trafficking ring and was covered by
reputable news outlets, has also served as a key gateway into QAnon.

* Word-of-mouth and algorithmic recommendations seem to have compounding risks that

we need to consider beyond evaluating our recommendations and invite system
separately?

* |saw another post discussing the need for intentional friction in Concerto so seems like
we're thinking about it already!

Lastly | think the framing of "Engagement" is a good reminder that Concerto couk Chats

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
DANGER OF RABBIT HOLES (FROM AN ARTICLE LINKED WITHIN)

But the Q believers | spoke with stumbled upon these incomprehensible ideas the old-
fashioned way. They say they were indoctrinated (though they don’t use that term) by their
parents, other family members, and friends, or introduced to the conspiracy through word-
of-mouth, rather than via the algorithms that have received the most national attention.
But word-of-mouth alone isn’t enough. The ability of people sitting at home to follow the
online rabbit holes downward is critical. Moms are seeing an ever-changing web of
trafficking conspiracy theories bounce around their circle of mom friends, like the
debunked Wayfair conspiracy theory and USPS phishing text scam. The Jeffrey Epstein
saga, a real-life case that involved an alleged sex trafficking ring and was covered by
reputable news outlets, has also served as a key gateway into QAnon.

* Word-of-mouth and algorithmic recommendations seem to have compounding risks that
we need to consider beyond evaluating our recommendations and invite system
separately?

« | saw another post discussing the need for intentional friction in Concerto so seems like
we're thinking about it already!

Lastly | think the framing of "Engagement" is a good reminder that Concerto could easily fall
into the engagement trap. Using ranking to show UC, sort comments, and recommend groups
can lead to engagement that reflect "usage that comes from one part our brains, while the
user’s decision of what makes your product worth their time comes from another".

#markdown

 
  
  
 

» Just Flagging and Comms Feedback
October 6, 2020 -@

https://arstechnica.com/.../facebooks-endless-quest-for.../

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
 
   

DOI Q&A
5 hrs - Q193662 in DO! - &

How do we calculate searchability?
When our searchability is at 10%, what is that telling us?
1.10% of returned content is violating?

2. 10% of searches return violating content?

3. Other?
—with mm: 3 others.
oO 4 3 Comments Seen by 39
gf Like © Comment @ Share

 
  
    
     
  
 
 

the answer is 3. Other:Definition: Of all of the VPVs on search results returned from
the essential query list (i.e. the list of queries indicating a user was searching for a
problem), what percent were violating according to human labeling. Source:
https://fb.workplace.com/notes/864276267638679 from mz:
and

es
https://fb. workplace.com/notes/475583250397974/ »
Search Terms used to define searchability:https://fburl com/unidash/8zcOh2fy

Searchability: Intro and setting up the metric
Like Reply 2h. Edited

#resolved (Thank you for bearing witness to my self-help session)
Like Reply = 1h O1

EDACTED FOR CONGRESS

R
