» FCU Feedback & XFN (FIT, UIP, Content Understanding) ves
February 4 &

FIT subtopic (climate science, climate change & global warming, earth science etc.)
guidelines for content classification

What we are doing -

We are from a search integrity team and working to minimize the spread of harm for climate
change topics in this H1 through SERP. We are in the very initial stage and working on ~
developing guidelines and query sets.

What helps we are looking for -

| found that “actor_inferred_tags_signal:feed table” has subtopics classification for climate
science, climate change & global warming, earth science, environmental science,atmospheric
science.

Ask -

Do you have guidelines with which you use to classify the content in above mentioned sub-

topics topics ? If so, could it be possible to share with us ?

2 6 Comments Seen by 162
1 Like © Comment @ Share

View 2 more comments

7

Like Reply . 14w

View 3 more comments

|| Write a comment... > @® ©

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
» Search Integrity: XFN wes
ugust 21, 2019 - @

Climate change misinformation

Do we specifically consider climate change as a sensitive area for integrity? I'm wondering
whether we have policies in place that would apply to misleading autocomplete suggestions
when searching for terms like "climate change”.

If someone is using Facebook Search to deliberately sow doubt and slow down the public
response to the climate crisis, they are using our service to jeopardize the lives of billions of
people over the coming decades. Is that an attack we are prepared for?

Q. climate change

Q. climate change debunked RK
Q. climate change memes RK
Q. climate change is a hoax RK

See results for climate change

» Climate Change Integrity Discussion
August 21, 2019 - @

When | searched for “climate change” yesterday on FB, 2 of the 3 autocomplete
suggestions are very misleading.

In general, do our policies combatting the sprea... See More Chats

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
> Climate Change Integrity Discussion
August 21, 2019 - @
When | searched for “climate change” yesterday on FB, 2 of the 3 autocomplete
suggestions are very misleading.
In general, do our policies combatting the spread of misinformation on Facebook apply to
climate denialism?
In specific, do we have any policy or mechanism in place that would remove these
misleading suggestions? Search suggestion algorithms seem like-a pretty high-leverage
target to people trying to manipulate public opinion, so we should have some protections
in place against someone “google bombing" FB search.

6 Comments Seen by 119

© Comment @ Share

 

 

Like Reply » ly

.. idea if we've tackled this for the TA?

Like - Reply : ly

a a. don't currently incorporate climate change in our TA labeling
guidelines. looking at Implementation Standards, climate change does not
explicitly violate policy either (though this may fall under misinfo and we'd
need to clarify Search's policy on this)

quip

Ee [DEPRECATAED] Typeahead Integrity Rating Guidelines
v2.0 (08/07/2019)

Like Reply - 1y O2

do we have anywhere we currently track all the things not in our current
guidelines and implementation standards? would make for a good backlog
prioritization discussion at some point.

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

5 rare me
3 WXIHW TyRyzkZZH9UuT 6KweNKjaeyHO8fTKUSpF9FAQZKXoj5 JxMnHaf3o-bmyslvF4dZZCLVVHGnwial _CIZQF5901 Jd, 17
SS we we don't currently incorporate climate change in our TA labeling
guidelines. looking at Implementation Standards, climate change does not
explicitly violate policy either (though this may fall under misinfo and we'd
need to clarify Search's policy on this)

Quip

[DEPRECATAED] Typeahead Integrity Rating Guidelines
v2.0 (08/07/2019)

2
Like Reply ly ©O2
em

do we have anywhere we currently track all the things not in our current
guidelines and implementation standards? would makesfor a good backlog
prioritization discussion at some point.

Like - Reply - ly

a | for ambiguous integrity incident (things not in our current

guidelines and implementation standards), we have a standard process to
progress toward the solution.

  

Y

Sih “

ase TSS eg

Zz

Sas Oo

Like Reply ly o 3 oO

ia

after clarification deemed to be violating, we can update our guideline. oO

Like - Reply - ty ow

owt I Gy
rite a reply... @) <p ©

Ee

Write a com: Q
ment... @) > ZO

QO

Lu

ao

; @ was live in AIL FYI 9.
September 16, 2020 . & ™

[Denlavl EV11 ive: Combatinn Climate Channa
WwXIHW IyRyzkzZ ZHOUT6KWeNKiaevHOSITKILISSEOFAGsKY nie iukéntinfan honuclueade eA) Nuun mipacean

 
[DEPRECATAED] Typeahead Integrity Rating
Guidelines v2.0 (08/07/2019) ‘

Overview

Workflow Goals & Context

This document serves as the guideline for all TypeAhead Integrity rating flows. Integrity flows aim to improve the quality of
the Facebook Typeahead module by labeling text strings which populate based on a query the user enters into the search

bar. As a rater, your goal is to identify whether or not the string is sensitive, and if so, assign a sensitive label based on
the categories and criteria outlined in the guideline.

  

tasty <— Query
tasty

     

«—_ Suggestion

   

tasty recipes

  

 
 

tasty recipes videos
Typeahead Module

   

tasty vegan

  

EDACTED FOR CONGRESS

Glossary of Terms
issary of Terms

ollowing terms and their meanings will be used throughout this guideline:

Query: The text used to perform a search for specific results. The word(s) or phrase entered into the search engine
(e.g. “cat videos,” “pancake recipes,” “Michelle Obama’). rk

Suggestion: The text returned by the typeahéad based on the searcher's original query and information. In the image
above, each line of text which appears below the user's original query, “survivor,” is one suggestion

» String: The characters, words, and/or phrases which make up the text of a query or suggestion. For the purpose of
this guideline, “string” refers to the query in the Typeahead Binary Sensitive workflow, and to the suggestion in the
Typeahead Sensitive Monitoring workflow.

® Proper Name: A name which refers to a specific person, Facebook group, Facebook page, place, brand, title, etc (i.e.
a proper noun).

© {18n: Abbreviation for “Internationalization.” In this guideline, i18n refers to a workflow which rates results in
languages other than English.

© Animal abuse: Animal abuse includes any of the following actions against an animal: Kicking, beating, or biting of an
animal by a person; torture; imagery of animal fights which depict graphic violence, unless in the wild; animal
slaughter in a hunting, manufacturing, or food preparation context.

© Bullying: Purposeful targeting of a private individual with intent to degrade or shame.

® Child abuse: Child abuse includes any of the following actions against a child: Kicking, beating, slapping, and/or
stepping on a child; strangling or suffocation; drowning; biting through the skin; poisoning; forcible restraint;
inflicting burn or cut wounds; forcible smoking, or drug/alcohol intake for a baby or toddler; tossing, rotating, or
shaking an infant (too young to stand) by the wrists/ankles, arms/legs, or neck.

© Hate crimes: a criminal act committed with a prejudiced motive targeting sensitive characteristics

© Hate Speech: Refers to content which attacks a group or individual based on any of the following protected

characteristics: race, ethnicity, national origin, religious affiliation, caste, sexual orientation, sex or gender identity,
serious disability or disease.

CONGRESS

f
© In the context of hate speech, “attack” is defined as violent or dehumanizing speech, statements of inferiority,
and calls for exclusion/segregation.

FOR

* Protected group characteristics: The following characteristics are protected: race, ethnicity, national origin, religious a
affiliation, caste, sexual orientation, sex or gender identity, serious disability or disease. Hate speech includes attacks LU
which target hate or harassment against individuals and groups who identify under any of these characteristics

* Regulated goods: Prescription drugs, non-medical drugs(eg: marijuana), animals(eg: husky, snake) and firearms (eg:
bomb, weapon).

© Animal sales, unless by:

REDACT
ristics: The following characteristics are protected: race, ethnicity, national origin, religious

© Protected group characte:
ra ch includes attacks

affiliation, caste, sexual orientation, sex or gender identity, serious disability or disease. Hate spee
which target hate or harassment against individuals and groups who identify under any of these characteristics

© Regulated goods: Prescription drugs, non-medical drugs(eg: marijuana), animals(eg: husky, snake) and firearms (eg

bomb, weapon).
Animal sales, unless by:
= Brick-and-mortar entities
= Animal rehoming entities or shelters

© Marijuana is used’to achieve a ‘high’ and purchase/sale/trade. Hash oil, weed, oil, liquid cannabis, and spice are
related to and should be treated like marijuana. CBD products, including CBD oil is a component of the cannabis
plant but does not cause a ‘high’, so it is non-violating and should not be treated like marijuana. Sale/purchase/trade
of marijuana related paraphernalia (bongs, pipes, etc.) do not violate.

© Anon-medical drug is any drug that:
© does not repair an type of physical or psychological condition;
© does not achieve a legitimate medical purpose or procedure;

© is described by an external source as being used to achieve a ‘high’ or altered state of being, although not
necessarily as its primary use.

© A pharmaceutical drug is any drug used to treat a medical condition that is not widely available without a
prescription. If you can find a drug in a basic first aid kit, it generally is not a pharmaceutical drug. For example,
headache medicine (aspirin, ibuprofin, tylenol, etc.), cough drops, vitamins, protein powders or supplements are not
considered pharmaceutical drugs. When in doubt, you can check the status of a drug
at: https: //www.drugs.com/drug_ information htm. If it is described as anything but ‘OTC’ then it is likely a
pharmaceutical drug. Birth control (pills, rings, IUDs, etc.) and abortion inducing medications are considered
pharmaceutical products, but condoms are not.

 

Instructions for Immediate Escalation

If potential Self-Injury/Suicidal Content, or Time-Sensitive Credible ii
or] Threat is the reason for markii “ itive,”
escalate the Job ID immediately to your manager. ing as ensue nen

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
Instructions for Immediate Escalation

If potential Self-Injury/Suicidal Content, or Time-Sensitive Credible Threat is the reason for marking as “sensitive,” then

escalate the Job ID immediately to your manager.

Rating UI & Labels

General UI

Suggestion:

Decision Label

QUESTIONS Back Reset DECISION

ANSWERS, © O-Skip

* 1-Sensitive

een Ae

Questions

Bock — Reset

answers

Promse cate the suggestion
senate oF not

stip
Senaeve,

Accuptatie

Test queue tor
‘example job

1998607739083354
Copy 10 Copy URL

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
ntegrity Rating Guidelines v2.0 (08/07/2019)

Format

Decision Label

QUESTIONS Back Reset
ANSWERS

Skip

Sensitive

Acceptable

DECISION
ACTIONS

om

Submit [Submit]

 

DECISION

e 0-Skip
© 1- Sensitive

© 2-Acceptable

Sensitive Categories & Keyword Entry

QUESTIONS Back Reset

ANSWERS
Sensitive Categorization
Child Exploitation
Self Injury
Violence/Credible Violence
Hate Speech
Adult ContenvSexual Content
Profanity

Harmtul Health Content

 

ANSWERS

fe Word(s) in Suggestion
separate multiple words with

CS 7? FFT

Done [Enter]

 

DECISION

1 - SENSITIVE

0 - Child Exploitation

1 - Self Injury

2 - Violence/Credible Violence
3 - Hate Speech

4 - Adult Content/Sexual
Content

5 - Profanity

6 - Harmful Health Content
7 - Regulated Goods

8 - Other

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
Sensitive Categories & Keyword Entry

QUESTIONS Back Reset

ANSWERS
Sensitive Categorization
Child Exploitation

Self Injury

Violence/Credibie Violence
Hate Speech

Adult ContenSexual Content
Profanity

Harmful Health Content
Regulated Goods

Other (provide a reason in the
reason box)

DECISION

Skip Reason

ANSWERS

Sensitive Word(s) in Suggestion
(please ‘separate multiple words with
comma):

iit

Done [Enter]

DECISION

1 - SENSITIVE

0 - Child Exptoitation

1- Self Injury
2-Violence/Credible Violence
3 - Hate Speech

4- Aduit Content/Sexual
Content

5S - Profanity

6 - Harmful Health Content
7 - Regulated Goods

8 - Other

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
Skip Reason

QUESTIONS Back Reset

ANSWERS

Skip Reason

Skip - Suggestion is in 8 langeage

‘other than the language of the b
workdiow.

Skip - Other (provide a reason in the
reason box)

DECISION

0 - SKIP

ANSWERS

Skip Reason (Other): © Suggestion is in a language other than the language of the workflow
© Other (include reason in freeform text box)

Done [Enter]

DECISION

Rating Steps & Instructions

tian ctrine which could

 

*

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
Rating Steps & Instructions

1 ~ Assess the text string to determine ver th ive intent. Is this a query / suggestion string wh
whether there is sensitive ry
Is thi | suggesti ing which could

z Foreign language should not surface (exception: ‘you are an i18n rater and the suggestion is your market language +
lish). If you come across foreign/ unrecognizable language in the suggestion string, select the label “O - Skip"

3-If the query / suggestion is Sensitive, select the label "1 - Sensitive” and the offensive category it falls under. All
sensitive selections will also require you to submit the keyword(s) that are offensive in the string. If there are multiple

words, please separate with a comma (i.e. ‘fucking slut’ = fucking, slut).

3 = Ifthe query / suggestion is Not Sensitive, then select the label "2 - Acceptable”

 

Label Definitions

0 - Skip

Use 0 - Skip for foreign language query / suggestion strings for which you do not understand all or part of the text, and you
cannot understand enough to rate. This includes query / suggestion strings which are completely or partially in a language
foreign to the language of the workflow in which you are rating (Latin or non-Latin characters). In the English US market,

you may skip queries/suggestions with multiple languages.

itive. If the text string is sensitive (eg. "video

This does not include query / suggestion strings which are recognizably sens
1u can recognize that the string is sensitive, then

porné"), DO NOT skip, even if itis in a foreign language. In other words, if yo

rate it sensitive.
In order to consider whether a query / suggestion is foreign, only !ook at strings Jonger than 3 letters. If the string (s 2
Keep in mind that some languages frequently use

partial word, or only a few characters long, do not assume itis foreign.
a nu’, “die’, ete, which

et sie a mee |. ex ovarsnie in Dutch you may see words with 2 or 3 letters like “al”,

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
Label Definitions
0 - Skip

Use 0 - Skip for foreign language query / Suggestion strings for which you do not understand all or part of the text, and you ©
cannot understand enough to rate. This includes query / suggestion strings which are completely or partially in a language
foreign to the language of the workflow in which you are rating (Latin or non-Latin characters). In the English US market,

you may skip queries/suggestions with multiple languages.

This does not include query / suggestion strings which are recognizably sensitive. If the text string is sensitive (e.g. “video
porns"), DO NOT skip, even if it is in a foreign language. In other words, if you can recognize that the string is sensitive, then
tate it sensitive.

In order to consider whether a query / suggestion is foreign, only look at strings longer than 3 letters. If the string is a
partial word, or only a few characters long, do not assume it is foreign. Keep in mind that some languages frequently use
words with 3 letters or less. For example, in Dutch you may see words with 2 or 3 letters like “al”, “nu”, “die”, etc, which
could be prefixes to English words.

 

Examples for when to skip and when not to skip: Viger ts}

© Skip for non-Latin character foreign language
© eg. "pecTopartb! prAOM Co MHOH”
2 eg, BB U OE FER
© Skip for general, non-entity, foreign language text in Latin characters
© eg. “vuelos baratos”
© Skip for non-sensitive, mixed language queries
© eg. In the English workflow, skip for: “los mejores ls 2s in Cancun"
© Skip for unicode text
© eg, \u0d38\u0d4d\u0d: 38\u0d4d \uOd2f\udd4d
© Skip for random string of numbers, without context
© eg. 65063686
© Do not skip for foreign language strings which are

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

ecognizably sensitive
Examples for when to skip and when not to skip:

* Skip for non-Latin character foreign language
° @.8. “pecTopat! pagom co mHon”
> 8g. IRAE Oe FRR”
Skip for general, non-entity, foreign language text in Latin characters
8. “vuelos baratos” :

* Skip for non-sensitive, mixed language queries

eg. Inthe English workflow, Skip for: “los Mejores La Ss in Cancun”
© Skip for unicode text

© e.g. \u0d38\u0d4d\u0d38\uddad \uOd2f\u0d4d
* Skip for random string of numbers, without context
© eg. 65063686
* Do not skip for foreign language strings which are recognizably sensitive

© @.g. “video porné"

 

© eg. “sexo oral”
e.g. “sexo anal”

* Do not always skip for foreign proper names. If you are certain that the string is a proper name, then select
Acceptable.

© eg, “esther dubois”

[i18n] English is not considered foreign language for i18n workflows. When rating ina non-English language, do not skip for
suggestions containing English. In some i18n markets, you should not automatically skip for queries/suggestions
containing multiple languages. Often, English is used in combination with the market language. Therefore, please rate for

strings containing the local market language and English.

1 - Sensitive

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
[DEPRECATAED] Typeahead Integrity Rating Guidelines v2.0 (08/07/2019)
Document Edit View Format

Examples for when to skip and when not to skip,

‘© Skip for non-Latin character foreign language
€.g "pecropanei panoM co HOM”
eg. BHU Oth PRR”
'* Skip for general, non-entity, foreign language text in Latin characters
eg. “vuelos baratos .
© Skip for non-sensitive, mixed language queries
eg In the English workfow, skip for: “los mejores Ls Js in Canctin®
© Skip for unicode text
eg, \u0d38 \udd4d\u0d38\uOdad \uOd2f\uddsa
© Skip for random string of numbers, without context
e.g. 65063686
* Do not skip for foreign language strings which are recognizably sensitive
eg. ‘video porno”
e.g, "sexo oral”
eg “sexo anal”

* Do not always skip for foreign proper names, If you are certain that the string is a proper name, then select
Acceptable

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

° eg. ‘esther dubois"
[i18n] English is not considered foreign language for i18n workflows. When rating in a non

English language, do not skip for

suggestions containing English. In some i18n markets, you should not automatically skip for queries/suggestions
containing multiple languages. Often, English is used in combination with the market language. Therefore, please rate for

strings containing 'the local market language and English.

1 - Sensitive

You should rate sensitive for queries / suggestions which trigger images, posts, and all other content that is harmful or
sensitive based on the following characteristics: risk of harm, threats to public safety, or otherwise sensitive content

Select the label 1. - Sensitive if the string falls in one of the following categories, If you mark a result sensitive, then you will

need to classify the content by selecting a sub-label from the following sensitive categories.

Note: When selecting a sensitive sub-label, always select the highest-ranked label from the

list below. For example, if a

sensitive result contains both Hate Speech and Profanity, you should select Hate Speech since it is ranked higher in the

hierarchy of labels,

* 0- Child Exploitation
© 1-Self Injury
 2-Violence/Credible Violence

© 3-Hate Speech

© 4- Adult Content/Sexual Content
© 5- Profanity

© 6-Harmful Health Content

© 7- Regulated Goods

© 8- Other

Remember, you are rating based on the string

search search results only to assess the meaning of the suggestion, and not to determine t

Many common names may generate pornographic results (e.g."mary ann’ "), these shot

# Astring such as "phonograph photos” is not sensitive in nature, Aside search will shi

 

itself, and not on the results generated by a search engine. Use the side

he final label decision.

uld not be considered sensitive,

ow that a phonograph is an audio

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
 

Remember, you are rating based on the string itself, and not on the results generated by a search engine. Use the side

search search results only to assess the meaning of the suggestion, and not to determine the final label decision.

* Many common names may generate pornographic results (e.g."mary ann”), these should not be considered sensitive.

* Astring such as "phonograph photos” is not sensitive in nature. A side search will show that a phonograph is an audio

device, and so photos of this are not considered sensitive.

For any incomplete suggestions, do your best in assessing whether it is very likely to be completed in a specific form, and
rate based on that. For example

© "girls having se"- It is very likely that the last word is an incomplete form of "sex", and you should rate the string
sensitive,

®

© ‘dirty pu" - The string is incomplete, and unclear enough that we cannot determine intent. A side search may show

various results, meaning that it is not certain that “dirty pu’ is an incomplete form of “dirty pussy”. In cases like this,
you should not rate the string sensitive

0 - CHILD EXPLOITATION

This includes queries / suggestions with intent for content related to the sexual exploitation of children, If the string
includes any indication of this type of exploitation, select 1 - Sensitive and the label Child Exploitation
Child Exploitation includes, but is not limited to queries / suggestions which:

© Contain anything related to sexual activity involving minors, soliciting minors, or sexualizing of minors
“kids touching each other’, “jailbait”, ‘molesting child”,

 

© eg. "body of a 12 year old”, “child erotic’,
© Sexualize teens and do not contain explicit intent for teens aged 18 or over
“teens in panties", "teens in thongs’, “sex teen’,
© Imply a minor involved in a sexual setting
© eg. colombian little girl student sex

* Contain pornographic terms or genres that sexualize minors
no an the attraction to young or prepubescent girls)

ae ‘alas Wades Tnsitin Fr

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
0 - CHILD EXPLOITATION

This includes queries / suggestions with intent for content related to the sexual exploitation of children. If the string
includes any indication of this type of exploitation, select 1 - Sensitive and the label Child Exploitation

Child Exploitation includes, but is not limited to queries / suggestions which

® Contain anything related to sexual activity involving minors, soliciting minors, or sexualizing of minors

 

e.g. “body of a 12 year old”, “child erotic”, “kids touching each other”

 

“molesting child",
* Sexualize teens and do not contain explicit intent for teens aged 18 or over

“teens in panties’, “teens in thongs”, “sex teen",
* Imply a minor involved in a sexual setting
e.g. colombian little girl student sex
* Contain pornographic terms or genres that sexualize minors

eg. “lolicon” (media focusing on the attraction to young or prepubescent girls)

 

Do not rate the following as Child Exploitation:

© Strings related to educational or informational topics related to child exploitation:
eg. ‘child abuse hotline’, ‘child molesters in my area”

© Strings which sexualize teens aged 18 and over. Rate these as Adult Content / Sexual Content
eg. “18+ teen porn” -+ Sensitive: 4 - Adult Content / Sexual Content

© Strings which contain the terms “boy” or “gir!” which do not indicate explicit intent for children

© eg. “call girl’, “call boy”, “hot girls", “boy naked”, "naked korean girl”

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

1.- SELF INJURY

This includes queries / suggestions which seek to promote, encourage, coordinate, or provide instructions for self-injury. It
the query / suggestion stfing includes any indication of self injury, select 2 - Sensitive and the label Self Injury

Self Injury includes, but is not limited to:
1- SELF INJURY

This includes queries / suggestions which seek to promote, encourage, coordinate, or provide instructions for self-injury. If
the query / suggestion string includes any indication of self injury, select 1 - Sensitive and the label Self Injury.

Self Injury includes, but is not limited to: *

* Suicide, self-injury, eating disorders, and other types of self-harm
© Strings explicitly related to suicide and/or self-injury

2g, “how to kill myself”, “best way to commit suicide” , ‘cutting my throat’

Do not rate the following as Self Injury:

* Queries/suggestions of entities which match to media, songs, movies, artists (not pages or groups):

eg. “killing me softly’, “Suicide squad”,

 

2 - VIOLENCE/CREDIBLE VIOLENCE |

This includes queries / suggestion strings related to violence, or credible acts of violence. If the string includes any
indication of violence/credible violence, select 1 - Sensitive and the label Violence/ Credible Violence

Explicit Violence |
© Strings related to violence against real people or animals
© eg. "beheading videos", “how to kill a dog”
© eg. “waterboarding videos”

© eg. “fight cam"

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

Credible Violence includes, but is not limited to queries | suggestions which:

f people, or
@ © Contain credible statement of intent or threat to commit or incite violence against any person, groups of peop!

aaa odie a

 
2 - VIOLENCE/CREDIBLE VIOLENCE

This includes queries / suggestion strings related to violence, or credible acts of violence. If the string includes any
e a

indication of violence/credible violence, select 1 - Sensitive and the label Violence/Credible Violence.

Explicit Violence
* Strings related to violence against real people or animals
e.g. "beheading videos", “how to kill a dog”
e.g. “waterboarding videos”

e.g. “fight cam”

Credible Violence includes, but is not limited to queries / suggestions which:

© Contain credible statement of intent or threat to commit or incite violence against any person, groups of people, or

place (city or smaller).

 

Credibility is based on the information available.

© Generally, a statement of violence is credible if it contains a target (person, group of people, or place), and two

‘or mare of the following (can be two of the same detail):
= Location |
= Timing
= Method

© Contain any statement of intent to commit
other reference) or vulnerable group, including (but not limited to) heads-of-state, witnesses and confidential

informants, activists, and journalists.

Seek information which could lead to credible violence, such as instructions on how t
explosives, UNLESS there is clear context that the intent is for a non-violent purpose (eg. fireworks)

.

© eg. “how to make a bomb”

Relate to promoting acts of terrorism, or in relation to terrorist organizations:

© eg. “how to join isis’, “isis killing children", “kkk hangs black girl"

tain intent, calls for action, or advocating for violence due to the oute

ome of an election
© Con

Violent term(s) + media'type (i.e. “photos’,
ds chantina tive ctraam” “walmart shooting videos”

ideos”, “live stream”) are sensitive

 

 

or incite violence against a vulnerable person (identified by name, title, or

0 make or use weapons and/or

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
 

® Method

other reference) or vulnerable group, including (but not limited to) heads-of-state, witnesses and confidential
informants, activists, and journalists.

explosives, UNLESS there is clear context that the intent is for a non-violent purpose (e.g. fireworks).
e.g. “how to make a bomb"

Relate to promoting acts of terrorism, or in relation to terrorist organizations:

e.g. “how to join isis”, “isis killing children", “kkk hangs black git!”
© Contain intent, calls for action, or advocating for violence due to the outcome of an election
© Violent term(s) + media type (i.e. “photos’, “videos”, “live stream") are sensitive

© "walmart shooting live stream’, “walmart shooting videos”

Do not rate the following as Violence/Credible Violence. Queries / suggestion strings which:

© Reference fictional violence, such as from video games:

© e.g, "make bombs witcher 3”, “kill dogs resident evil" |
© Relate to pest eradication: il

© eg. “how to kill cockroaches” | |
© Are too short to determine whether the intent is violence:

© eg. “kill”, * gun”, “strangle”, “firearms” |
© Seek factual, educational, or newsworthy information:

© eg, “mass killings in us", “isis winning in syria’, “isis attack nyc’, “active shooter now”, “walmart shooting”

3 - HATE SPEECH

ising hate
This includes queries / suggestions which are hateful against 2 protected group, or an individual, andlor rs ing hate
groups or ideologies. If the query / suggestion string includes any hate speech, select 1 - Sensitive

Speech.

Contain any statement of intent to commit or incite violence against a vulnerable person (identified by name, title, or

Seek information which could lead to credible violence, such as instructions on how to make or use weapons and/or

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
3 - HATE SPEECH

This includes queries / suggestions which are hateful a
groups or ideologies. If the query / suggestion strinj
Speech.

Balnst a protected group, or an individual, and/or praising hate
B includes any hate speech, select 1 - Sensitive and the label Hate

We define hate speech as content which diractly attacks people based the following protected characteristics:
© Race
* Ethnicity
* National origin
© Religious affiliation
© Sexual orientation
© Sex, gender, or gender identity

* Serious disabilities or diseases

Hate Speech includes, but is not limited to queries / suggestions which:

* Contain violent or dehumanizing speech, statements of inferiority, or calls for exclusion or segregation

© Are hateful against a protected group, such as racial slurs (including misspellings), and queries/suggestions which are
derogatory against groups based on any of the above-listed protected characteristics:

© eg. “nigger”, “chink”, “yid’, “tranny”, “shemale”
© eg. “women should know their place’, “asians are cheap’, “gays go to hell”, “immigrants are thieves”
© Display derogatory statements against a public or private individual:
© eg. “jason smith is a fag”
© eg. “kamala harris is a joke”
© Display praise for hate groups or people who commit harmful actions against a protected group:
e.g. “james alex fields jr is a hero” (the individual that ran a car through a crowd protesting white supremacy
rally), “kkk saves america”
© False information or opinions on public figures or notable people:
© eg. “hillary clinton is dead’, “hillary clinton is a robot”, “impeach donald trump"

© Target all private individuals or public figures with:

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

 
Display derogatory statements against a public or private individual

   

WANS POSE RSA SHE Lica, Buys gO WiieH, Her,

 

POVNS HE Weve

© @. “Jason smith is a fag”

e.g. “kamala harris isa joke”

Display praise for hate groups or people who commit harmful actions against a protected group

&g. “james alex fields jr is a hero” (the individual th:

vat ran a car through a crowd prote: it macy
rally), “kkk saves america” ° prowengenne supe ‘

False information or opinions on public figures or notable people:

° @g. “hillary clinton is dead”, “hillary clinton is a robot”, “impeach donald trump”

Target all private individuals or public figures with:

> Calls for death or serious disease or disability

°

°

°

 

Derogatory terms reiated to female gendered cursing

 

= eg. "michelle obama is a cunt”,

 

‘michelle obama is a pussy”

Claims about sexual activity or sexually transmitted diseases; Statements of intent to engage in a sexual activity
or advocating to engage in a sexual activity

Targeted cursing

   

Negative physical descriptions
Claims about religious identity or biaspherny, except in at-risk countries where the Violence and Incitement
policy should be applied i

Calls for death or serious disease or disability

Comparisons to animals or insects that are culturally perceived as intellectually or physically inferior or to an
inanimate object (“cow," “monkey” “potato")

Content manipulated to highlight, circle, or otherwise negatively draw attention to specific physical
characteristics (nose, ear, etc.)

Attacks through negative physical descriptions

Content that ranks them based on physical appearance or personality
context further degrades the individual

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

Association to menstruating, urinating, vomiting, or defecating where
or contains an expression of disgust
Association to physical bullying where context further degrades the individual

Content questioning hygiene

Coordination, advocation, or promotion of exclusion

Negative character of ability claims, except in the context of criminal allegations against adults
 

Content manipulated to highlight, circle, or otherwise negatively draw attention to specific physical

characteristics (nose, ear, etc.)

Attacks through negative physical

 

F iptions

Content that ranks them based on physical appearance or personality

Association to menstruating, urinating, vomiting, or defecating where context further degrades the individual

or contains an expression of disgust
Association to physical bullying where context further degrades the individual
Content questioning hygiene

Coordination, advocation, or promotion of exclusion

Negative character oF ability claims, except in the context of criminal allegations against adults

Expressions of contempt or disgust, except in the context of criminal allegations against adults

Unwanted manipulated imagery

Derogatory comparison to other public, fictional or private individuals on the basis of physical appearance

Do not rate the following as Hate Speech

* Seeking factual, educational, or newsworthy information about hate groups:
@.g. “white supremacy rally san francisco”, "kkk interview’
© Some other examples that should not be rated as Hate Speech

eg. “racist memes”, “racist video", "white supremacist”, “so gay

@ 4 - ADULT CONTENT/SEXUAL CONTENT

This includes all commonly known sexual words, as well as misspellings and variations of sexual words. If the query /
Suggestion string includes intent for any adult content/sexual content, select 1 - Sensitive and the label Adult

Content/Sexual Content.

Adult Content/Sexual Content includes, but is not limited to, queries / suggestions with explicit pornographic intent:

Sexually explicit language, and/or terms seeking pornography, nudity, and/ar sexual activity

© eg. “gangbang”, “threesome’, “hot lesbians’, “girls fingering’, “naked girls’

 

*

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

 
Adult Content/Sexual Content includes, but is not limited to, queries / suggestions with explicit pornographic intent

© Sexually explicit language, and/or terms seeking pornography, nudity, and/or sexual activity

© eg, “gangbang”, “threesome”, "hot lesbians’, “girls fingering”, “naked girls”
“bbw’, "bbc"; “call girl", “call boy”

 

= Includes misspellings of such terms

Multiple x's standalone OR in combination with letters / terms

 

= The only case "xxx" could be considered non-adult is in combination with a non-adult concept, e.g. "xxx
the return of xander cage” (movie) or “xxxtentacion" (late artist)

© General references to porn

= @g. “pornography’,"porn star’, "porn actress”

Profanity with clear intent for adult/sexual content
= eg. “ass”, “tits”, “pussy”, “dick”, “milf”
Pornographic content publishers in print, video, web, etc.

= e.g. Porn magazines: “playboy magazine”, “hustler’, “escort”,
= e.g. Porn websites: “redtube.com’, "youporn.com’, "xhamster.com”
= e.g. Pornographic film studios: “reality kings” “bangbros’, “pinkvisual’, “club jenna”

Adult retailers

‘good vibrations”

 

= eg. “sex shop

Seeking sexual services via implied monetary transaction
= ©g “prostitutes nearby”, “call girls san francisco’, “escort services nyc” “strippers Las Vegas”

Porn star names. Includes porn star names with additional terms such as “pictures”, “photos”, “videos”, which
indicate intent to seek adult content.

= e.g, “sasha foxxx", “kendra lust’, “kendra lust videos”
= e.g. “mia khalifa photos", “rachel starr videos”
© Strings which contain sensitive intent, and include the words “hot” or “sexy”
= eg, “Taylor swift hot" is sensitive
= e.g. “reading is sexy - book promo" is not sensitive

> Regional sexual slang that is seemingly innocuous

= eg. “desi mom and aunty’, “chodi”

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
      

Adult retailers
= e.g. “sex shops’, “good vibrations”
Seeking sexual services via implied monetary transaction

= 8 “prostitutes nearby", “call girls san francisco’, “escort services nyc” “strippers Las Vegas”

 

Porn star names. Includes porn star names with additional terms such as “pictures”, “photos”, “videos”, which
indicate intent to seek adult content.

a

© e.g. “sasha foxxx", “kendra lust’, “kendra lust videos”

 

= e.g, “mia khalifa photos’, “rachel starr videos”
Strings which contain sensitive intent, and include the words “hot” or “sexy”
© eg. “Taylor swift hot” is sensitive

= eg. “reading is sexy - book promo’ is not sensitive

Regional sexual slang that is seemingly innocuous

= eg. “desi mom and aunty” , “chodi"

= eg. “blue movies’, “Aussie kiss”, “Prince Albert”
Text with explicit descriptions of sexual acts

® @g. “erotic stories’, “romantic sex stories”, “sexy stories”

Cartoons and comics that show explicit sexual images and/or acts
= eg. “adult/xxx cartoons’, “hentai videos’ -* anime / manga pornography
Hookups
= e.g “girl for one night stand in new york"
©. Strings which contain terms like "18" / "18+" along with additional context indicating adult intent

= eg. Terms such as “adult” / “18” / "18+" combined with media keywords indicate adult intent: “adult
videos” or “18+ videos”

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

@ Do not rate the following as displaying Adult Content/Sexual Content. Queries / suggestions which:

‘© Contain pornography film star names that can be a common person's name
eg. “amber smith’, “amber smith photos” (pornography film star but does not contain explicitly sexual terms)
© eg, “angela white”, “mia khalifa” or “alexa grace” are perfectly common names which should not be rated as
sensitive c
© Contain popular terms which are borderline sexual, but not ‘explicit

2 nn “baiarbine” Seximenit collection 2018"
@ do not rate the following as displaying Adult Content/Sexual Content. ‘Queries / suggestions which:

* Contain pornography film star names that can be a common person's name

©. “amber smith’, ‘amber smith photos" (pornography film star but does not contain explicitly sexual terms)
eg. "angela white”
sensitive

 

ia Khalifa” or “alexa grace” are perfectly common names which should not be rated as

* Contain popular terms which are borderline sexual, but not explicit
© eg. “twerking”, “swimsuit collection 2018"

* Seek factual, educational, or newsworthy information

 

eg. “scott weiner scandal”, “prostitution preventior

 

"escort meaning”
© Seek movies with adult content or sexual undertones
eg. “fifty shades of gray’, “les cousins dangereux”

© Seek dating information

 

eg. “single ladies meet foreigners’, “filipina single ladies searching for true love’, “LoveHabibi”

 

© Appear to be non-sensitive without context
e.g. “indian girls”

© NOTE: For these types of suggestions, if there are contextual keywords which suggest potential child
exploitation intent (e.g. “indian little girls photos,” or “indian little girls videos"), then rate Child Exploitation

5 - PROFANITY

This includes all commonly known profane words, misspellings and variations, If the suggestion includes any profanity,
select 1 - Sensitive and the label Profanity.

Profanity includes, but is not limited to:

© Profane words
© eg. “fuck”, “asshole”, “cunt, “shit”

© Misspellings and variations of profane words
© eg. “muthafucka’, “bitchass”, “furc k”

 

*

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
5 - PROFANITY

This includes all commonly known profani

'e words, misspellings and variations, If thi
select 1 - Sensitive and the label Profani Smhasestonncades ay rai,

Profanity includes, but is not limited to:
* Profane words
e.g. “fuck”, “asshole”, “cunt, “shit”
* Misspellings and variations of profane words
> e.g. “Muthafucka", “bitchass”, “fuc k”
* Phonetic variations of profane words
© eg. “phuk you"
© Regional slang

© @8, ‘wanker’, "beaver" (vagina), “take off eh! (go fuck yourself)”

Do not rate the following as Profanity
© Legitimate proper names that may appear like profanity
e.g. “fcuk" and “talkshit" are both clothing brands
© Strings containing words or phrases which are not considered profanity k
© “damn” ~ e.g. “damn yankees watering hole" “damn life quotes" “damn. loving”

“what the f” - e.g “excuse me what the f”

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

6 - HARMFUL HEALTH CONTENT
This includes queries / suggestions which contain health content that could lead to serious harm. If the query / suggestion

string including violating health content, select 1 - Sensitive and the label Harmful Health Content.

Anti-Vax_

© Vaccine misinformation
in nenuan fales hv an exnert organization should be labeled as

 
6 - HARMFUL HEALTH CONTENT

This includes queries / suggestions which contain health content that could lead to serious harm. If the query / ‘Suggestion
String including violating health content, select 2 - Sensitive and the label Harmful Health Content

Anti-Vax_
* Vaccine misinformation

© Any vaccine-related claimed that have been proven false by an expert organization should be labeled as
violating

® Vaccination directly leads to harmful health outcomes
3 Vaccines cause many harmful side effects, illnesses, and even death
Vaccines cause long-term harmful side effects (i.e. autism, Sudden Infant Death ‘Syndrome; (SIDS)
Vaccines cause death or vaccines kill

4#vaccineskill, #vaccinesmaim, #vaccinesdestroylives, #vaccinescauseautism, or other similar
hashtags { ’

4 Vaccines infect recipients with the disease against which they are designed to vaccinate
® Vaccines (or their ingredients) are unsafe

Vaccines are comprised of harmful chemicals/unsafe toxins

Mercury in vaccines acts as a neurotoxin

, &
1 There are “hot lots” of vaccine that have been associated with more adverse events and deaths
than others, Parents should avoid receiving vaccines from them.

© Vaccines aren't worth the risk

The existence of programs like the “National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program” prove that
vaccines are dangerous

© Historic incidents of vaccine injury prove that vaccines are dangerous

© Vaccine recalls prove that vaccine are dangerous
® Vaccines are not efficacious or not necessary

> Vaccines are not effective in preventing the disease against which they purport to protect

© The majority of people who get disease have been vaccinated, showing they don't work
Diseases had already begun to disappear before vaccines were introduced, because of better
hygiene and sanitation

 

minatad fram mu cnuntry so there is no need

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
= Vaccines are not efficacious or not necessary
= Vaccines are not effective in preventing the disease against which they purport to protect
The majority of people who get disease have been vaccinated, showing they don’t work

© Diseases had already begun to disappear before vaccines were introduced, because of better
hygiene and sanitation

© Vaccine-preventable diseases have been virtually elirninated from my country, so there is no need
for my child to be vaccinated

= Recommended Vaccine schedules are unsafe

© Giving a child multiple vaccinations at the same time increases the risk of harmful side effects
and can overload the immune system

Children get too many immunizations which poses safety risks
© Vaccines are safer if spread apart/ spaced out
© Infant immune systems. can't handle so many vaccines
Vitamin C can prevent measles
® The diseases which the vaccination targets are not dangerous, so there is no need for vaccination
© The diseases welvaccinate against are not dangerous or deadly, including but not limited to:

© Chickenpox (Varicella), Diphtheria, Flu (Influenza), Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hib
(Haemophilus influenzae type b), HPV (Human Papillomavirus), Measles, Meningococcal,
Mumps, Pneumococcal, Polio (Poliomyelitis), Rotavirus, Rubella (German Hyleastes),
Shingles (Herpes Zoster), Tetanus (Lockjaw), Whooping Cough (Pertussis)

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

   

* Vaccination is a violation of civil or religious liberties
© Enforcing a mandatory vaccination policy/schedule is a violation of civil liberties/rights
= Parents have the right to choose whether their kids are vaccinated
® Patients have the right to choose what goes into their own bodies
® Women's right to choose what is injected into her child
= Lots of related variants of the above under the vaccination “pro-choice” framing
= Children/Parents are not able to give informed consent
© Enforcing a mandatory policy/schedule is a violation of religious or moral beliefs
= Religious doctrine/teachings are not compatible with vaccination
&= Religious-, health-, or morals-based dietary restrictions are not compatible with vaccination

= God created diseases for a reason, and it is wrong to thwart God's will via vaccination
We oie ot” Dit

 

© Enforcing a mandatory policy/schedule is a violation of religious or moral beliefs

= Religious doctrine/teachings are not compatible with vaccination

® Religious-, health-, or morals-based dietary restrictions are not compatible with vaccination
® God created diseases for a reason, and it is wrong to thwart God's will via vaccination

= New vaccines are being developed using body parts from aborted fetuses

= Cannot be both pro-life and pro-vaccine

® Vaccines contain cells from aborted fetuses

™ Cell cultures from aborted fetal tissue are used to grow vaccine viruses.

Vaccinations are unsafe/should be feared

> Content that exploits fear of needles

= Content that implies that vaccination causes fainting, twitching, and/or seizures
= Content that implies that the additives in vaccines are dangerous
© Vaccines contain adjuvants and/or preservatives like mercury, aluminum, ete
© There are dozens of foreign, artificial chemicals in vaccines
Exposure to chemicals in vaccines is dangerous, particularly for the immune system of a child

Vaccines are “toxic”

Vaccines contain dangerous toxic substances like antifreeze

Getting multiple vaccines can cause dangerous or unknown interactions ‘

Vaccines can lead to dangerous adverse drug reactions, including death

= Historical references to vaccine recalls or safety incidents that produced adverse reactions

= Blanket statements that all vaccines are dangerous during pregnancy

settlements for vaccine injury as evidence that vaccines are unsafe

Anti-vaccination activism/call to action

°

°

9°

Instructions on how to file a vaccine reaction , for example with the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting Syste!

the US (VAERS)
Information about ge!
or “exemptions”

Information about petitions or protests to support anti-vaccination positions

Urging people to contact lawmakers to educate/inform/influence them on anti-vaccination causes

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

Accounts of vaccine courts (ex: "National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program” in the US) paying out

min

ting involved with governmental bills or laws, for examples ones around vaccine "choice
* Anti-vaccination activism/call to action

© Instructions on how to file a vaccine reaction , for example with the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System in
the US (VAERS)

Information about getting involved with governmental bills or laws, for examples ones around vaccine “choice”
or “exemptions”

Information about petitions or protests to support anti-vaccination positions

Urging people to contact lawmakers to educate/inform influence them on anti-vaccination causes

Urging people to contact drug companies to educate /inform /influence them on anti-vaccination causes

Urging people to bring information to doctors to educate /inform influence them on anti-vaccination causes

Photos of vaccine inserts with captions urging parents to educate themselves and physicians about the
information in them showing their safety problems or ineffectiveness

Provides scientific-sounding information on the safety/efficacy liabilities of vaccines, including scientific jargon,
statistics, and references to scientific studies

°

  

Exagge claim: health product or intervention (MIRACLE CURES)

© Creates the wrong expectation of the reader by exaggerating or overstating the impact of the product or intervention.
Violating if this exaggeration can lead to serious medical harm.

© Examples of diseases commonly claimed to be “cured” are
a Multiple Sclerosis, Diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, HIV/AIDS, Arthritis, any type of Canced Depression,
Anxiety, Fibromyalgia, Lyme disease.

 

Common characteristics of these claims are

= Often suggest “quick, guaranteed” fixes for a disease or a number of different diseases. These fixes are
often called “miracles”, “special”, “secret”, “revolutionary”, “magic”, etc. without any references or
citations.

= Hyperbolic presentation ("I have NEVER felt better”)

= Manipulation by imagery (happy people holding hands, laughing, projection of idealized relationships
and\or lifestyle) and sound (upbeat/inspirational music).

Calls to action ‘

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
T = od 2
Calls to action.
* Suggesting that someone should take some sort of action, treatment or Program aimed at improving their health.
Contains information or advice that could lead to serious medical harm
& This label is for any content that could cause serious harm if the advice given is acted upon
= The post includes an explicit call for or strong Suggestion to change someone's current treatment plan.
= The post includes an explicit call for or strong suggestion to avoid standard medical care

= The remedy, procedure, or intervention could cause serious harm. Harm includes physical, mental, or
endangers personal safety.

“For example, home remedies that could cause harm if followed

= Promotes the consumption/sale/ purchase of products that contain anabolic steroids, chitosan, comfrey,
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), ephedra, human growth hormones (HGH), or human chorionic
gonadotropin (hCG).

© Some examples include: ‘
© Strong suggestion that implies someone should change their current treatment plan:
= “The flu shot doesn’t work, don't waste your money on it this year!”

= "Dr. Hardin B, Jones recently revealed that chemotherapy doesn't work 979% of the time, and doctors
only recommend it to get kickbacks.”

= “Don't listen to big pharma, cancer is a fungus and can be cured with baking soda"
The post includes an explicit call for or strong suggestion to avoid standard medical care.

“Have a cold? Don't ask your doctor for antibiotics!”

= “Hospitals are full of germs - never have your baby in a hospital’

= “Next time you have a flu, don't go to the hospital. Try these 10 tips instead.”

Conveying distrust of standard medical care
© Results that may suggest conspiracy theories about governmental Health and regulatory agencies (e.g. CDC, FDA,
NIH, EPA) and medical professionals (doctors, dentists, nurses), pharmaceutical companies that develop and
distribute medicine (ex: Merck, Pfizer), or chemical companies (ex: Dow, Monsanto, DuPont).

*® Some examples include:
© The disease that [entity] claims to treat doesn't exist.

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
Conveying distrust of standard medical care

© Results that may suggest conspiracy theories about governmental Health and regulatory agencies (e.g CDC, FDA,
NIH, EPA) and medical professionals (doctors, dentists, nurses), pharmaceutical companies that develop and
distribute medicine (ex: Merck, Pfizer), or chemical companies (ex: Dow, Monsanto, DuPont)
© Some examples include:
The disease’that [entity] claims to treat doesn't exist
= ex: poliovirus does not exist
[Entity] deliberately suppresses natural or alternative treatments.
[Entity] promotes medical treatments that cause what they are purported to alleviate.
[Entity] primarily make decisions in the commercial interest of partners and/or against those of patients.
[Entity] assists in the deliberate creation and/or spread of diseases
[Entity] aims to keep patients from getting better.
[Entity] is withholding the cure (or other significant treatment) for disease X.
{Entity] fraudulently overstates efficacy of medical treatments
[Entity] fraudulently understates the safety risks of medical treatments
Widespread collusion between [Entities] is the primary cause of public health problems. k

* May be relating to cancer or other disease treatments

Health Outbreak Misinformation

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

© Suggests outbreak is not real/doesn't exist
Example: “Ebola is not real”

© Suggests outbreak was invented or purposefully spread by a company, government, health aid agency, or
another group?

Some examples include:
= “Ebola was invented by the government”
= “Ebola was invented/spread by the government to attack/destabilize /target/ break-up a region or group
of people”

in “Ebola was spread by the government tO kee te COT
Health Outbreak Misinformation

© Suggests outbreak is not real/doesn't exist
© Example: “Ebola is not real”

© Suggests outbreak was invented or purposefully spread by a company, government, health aid agency, or
another group?

Some examples include:
= "Ebola was invented by the government”

= “Ebola was invented/spread by the government to attack/destabilize/target/ break-up a region or group
of people"

“Ebola was spread by the government to keep us from voting”
= °X politician is spreading the disease to gain contro!”
= “Ebola was invented by the company to make money”
m= “The flu is being spread by the health agency to make money”
* Calls for violence against health workers who are addressing the outbreak
© Call to attack/disrupt/destroy medical convoys, workers, treatment facilities, hospitals.
© Any suggestion that health workers should be abused, threatened or assaulted in circumstances related to their
work, including commuting to and from work, involving an explicit or implicit challenge to their safety, well
being or health. Wis
> Violence can be physical: the use of physical force against another person or group, that resultf in physical,
sexual or psychological harm.

 

Violence can be psychological: the use of power, including threat of physical force, against another person or
group, that can result in harm to physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development.

= Includes verbal abuse, bullying/mobbing, harassment, and threats,

HEALTH Commerce
© Posts that are trying to sell you on any health related product or service (feels like an ad or promotion).

© Some examples include:
® The content is asking you to sign-up for services without offering information/content

= The cmatant deecrihec hacic business information without giving any information relevant to health

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
HEALTH Commerce

© Posts that are trying to sell you on any health related product or service (feels like an ad or promotion).
> Some examples include:

The content is asking you to sign-up for services without offering information/content

The content describes basic business information without giving any information relevant to health

Asking for participation in medical study/research, clinical trial, or legal lawsuit

Asking you to complete a survey, answer questions about yourself, take a quiz, or share personal
information

Advertisements for health insurance or life insurance

Content is a business or product testimonial

= Giving away or selling personal medication

Testimonial for drug/medication,

Do not rate the following as Harmful Health Content:

© Results that question vaccines, but do not focus on any specific myths should be labeled as non-violating
Ex: Results that promote a wholistic/natural approach to medicine
© Stories about personal negative experiences related to vaccinations
© Exaggerated claims that do not lead to serious medical harm. Generally claims about weight loss/diet are non-
violating. ®
© Ex: “Lose 10 Ibs/week running*
© Calls to action that do not lead to serious medical harm

© Ex: “8 glasses of water a day will increases Brain Power and provide more energy.”

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

7 - REGULATED GOODS

Policy rationale: To encourage safety and compliance with common legal restrictions, we prohibit attempts by individuals,
manufacturers, and retailers to purchase, sell, raffle, gift, transfer or trade non-medical drugs, pharmaceutical drugs,
marijuana, firearms, firearm parts, ammunition, explosives, and 3D printed files to firearm and firearm parts between
private individuals on Facebook. Some of these iterns are not regulated everywhere; however, because of the borderless
natuuna af sui eameeunity we tevin enfarre aur policies as consistently as possible. Firearm stores and online retailers may
7 - REGULATED GOODS

Policy rationale: Toencourage safety and compliance with common legal restrictions, we prohibit attempts by individuals,
manufacturers, and retailers to purchase, sell, raffle, gift, transfer or trade non-medical drugs, pharmaceutical drugs,
marijuana, firearms, firearm parts, ammunition, explosives, and 3D printed files to firearm and firearm parts between
private individuals on Facebook. Some of these items are not regulated everywhere; however, because of the borderless
nature of our community, we try to enforce our policies as consistently as possible. Firearm stores and online retailers may
promote items available for sale off of our services as long as those retailers comply with all applicable laws and reguiations.
We allow discussions about sales of firearms and firearm parts in stores or by online retailers and advocating for changes to
firearm regulation.

Offensive Regulated Goods content can be any of the following:

1. Content about non-medical drugs (other than alcohol or tobacco) that:

a. Co-ordinates or encourages others to sell non-medical drugs
b. Depicts, admits to, attempts purchase, or promotes sales of non-medical drugs committed by the poster of the

content or their associates

c.

Promotes, encourages, coordinates, or provides instructions for use or make non-medical drugs

d. Written or verbal admissions to personal use of non-medical drugs, UNLESS the content is posted in a recovery

context

2. Content that depicts the sale or attempt to purchase marijuana and pharmaceutical drugs

a. Mentions or is associated with marijuana or pharmaceutical drugs, and

b. Makes an attempt to donate (between private individuals) or sell or trade, by which we mean:

iii
iv. Asking or giving away the product for free between private individu

Explicitly mentioning the product is for donation (between private individuals) or sale or trade or delivery
OR
Asking the audience to buy, OR
Listing the price, OR
als OR
Encouraging contact about the product EITHER BY
1. Explicitly asking to be contacted, OR

2. Including any type of contact information

Aka ham fr eala defined as

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
2. Content that depicts the sale or attempt to purchase marijuana and pharmaceutical drugs

a. Mentions or is associated with marijuana or pharmaceutical drugs, and

b. Makes an attempt to donate (between private individuals) or sell or trade, by which we mean:

<

vi

Explicitly mentioning the product is for donation (between private individuals) or sale or trade or delivery
oR

Asking the audience to buy, OR |
Listing the price, OR

. Asking or giving away the product for free between private individuals OR

Encouraging contact about the product EITHER BY
1. Explicitly asking to be contacted, OR
2. Including any type of contact information
OR Attempting to solicit the item for sale, defined as:
1. Stating interest in buying the good, or
2. Asking if anyone else has the good for sale/trade

¢. This applies to both individual pieces of content and objects primarily dedicated to the sale of marijuana or
pharmaceutical drugs ;

3, Content that attempts to offer, sell, gift, exchange, or transfer: firearms (including explosives), firearm parts (including
ammunition, or lethal enhancements or promote or otherwise provide access to 3D printing or computer aided
manufacturing instructions for firearms or firearms parts between private individuals defined as:

a. Mentions or is associated with firearms, firearm parts (including ammunition, lethal enhancements, explosives,

3D gun printing files or any of the above and a product unrelated to firearms, and

b. Making an attempt to sell or trade, by which we mean

iii.
, Encouraging contact about the product EITHER BY

Explicitly mentioned the product is for sale or trade, OR
Asking the audience to buy, OR
Listing price or noting product is free

1. Explicitly asking to be contacted, OR
2. Including any type of contact information
Making an attempt to solicit the item for sale, defined as:
1. Stating that they are interested in buying the good, OR

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
3, Content that attempts to offer, sell, gift, exchange, or transfer: firearms (including explosives), firearm parts (including
ammunition, or lethal enhancements or promote or otherwise provide access to 3D printing or computer aided
manufacturing instructions for firearms or firearms parts between private individuals defined as:

@. Mentiéns or is associated with firearms, firearm parts (including ammunition, lethal enhancements, explosives,
3D gun printing files or any of the above and a product unrelated to firearms, and

b. Making an attempt to sell or trade, by which we mean

Explicitly mentioned the product is for sale or trade, OR

Asking the audience to buy, OR

Listing price or noting product is free
iv. Encouraging contact about the product EITHER BY
1. Explicitly asking to be contacted, OR
2. Including any type of contact information
v. Making an attempt to solicit the item for sale, defined as:
1. Stating that they are interested in buying the good, OR
2. Asking if anyone else has the good for sale/trade

vi. AND is not posted by a Page representing a real brick-and-mortar store, legitimate website, brand, or
government agency (eg. Police Department, Fire Department, etc.)

4. Trade (buying or selling) of human organs and/or blood where trade is defined as:
a. Mentioning or depicting the human organs and/or blood AND
b. Explicitly mention human organs and/or blood are for selling or buying OR
¢. Listing a price or expressing willingness to discuss price.

5. Encouraging contact to facilitate the trade of human organs and/or blood

6. Content that attempts to sell animals on the platform UNLESS when sold by
a. Brick-and-mortar entities OR
b, Animal rehoming entities or shelters

7. Content that attempts to sell, poach, buy, giveaway endangered species and their parts.

Examples:

© a drug name AND a location (e.g,, ‘marijuana london’, 'Isd mexico’)

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

© a drug name AND the name of any messaging service (e.g., ‘kik potdealer’, ’ wicker cocaine’)
‘@ mantinnina ar danicting the dnig name AND term(s) that indicate an attempt to buy. solicit or trade (e.g, ‘iso opium’,
Examples.

© a drug name AND a location (e.g., ‘marijuana london, ‘Isd mexico’)
* a drug name AND the name of any messaging service (e.g, 'kik potdealer’, ' wicker cocaine’)

* mentioning or depicting the drug name AND term(s) that indicate an atternpt to buy, solicit or trade (e.g, ‘iso opium’,
‘steroids for sale’, ‘looking for xanax’, ‘weed trade’)

8 - OTHER

The label 6 - Other is for queries / suggestions which are not covered by any of the above criteria. If the query / suggestion
string includes any indication of sensitive content that does not fail within in any of the existing Sensitive categories, then
select 1 - Sensitive and the label Other.

When you select this label, you must provide a detailed description in the comment box explaining why you selected
Other instead of the other labels. Include in the description exactly what you viewed which let you to believe that
the query/suggestion is sensitive, and a recommendation for a new sensitive category.

2 - Acceptable ¥
Select Acceptable when the query / suggestion does not contain any content that is sensitive

[i28n] A query / suggestion string which is in English is considered acceptable if it is not sensitive. Do not select skip for
English strings.
For examples
© “uk calendar girls”
© queries / suggestions containing words or phrases which are not considered profanity
“damn” - e.g. "damn yankees watering hole” “damn life quotes” “damn loving”

© “what the f” - e.g ‘excuse me what the f”

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
2 - Acceptable

Select Acceptable when the query / suggestion does not contain any content that is sensitive

[i18n] A query / suggestion string which is in English is considered acceptable if it is not sensitive. Do not select skip for

English strings.
For examples

© “uk calendar girls”

© queries / suggestions containing words or phrases which are not considered profanity

“damn* - e.g. “damn yankees watering hole” “damn life quotes" “darn loving”

“what the f” - e.g "excuse me what the f”

  

Example Ratings

Language Suggestion String

1 a MRT

applicable)
The string is ina ak other than the language of the w

2 man #4 <= > +. man o too way nee
3 chat with best ladies

4 shemales in oman

5 lesbian tongue videos

6 Bay dickley hole

7 gay fuckvideos

8 whitetrash women

° Bay kiss videos only

Label Decision

0- Skip
2-Acceptable — »
1-Sensitive ’

1- Sensitive ¥
1- Sensitive ¥
1-Sensitive ¥
1 - Sensitive v

1- Sensitive »

Sensitive Category (if

3-Hate Speech

4 Adult Sexual
Content

4 Adult Sexual
Content

4. Adult Sexual
Content

3. Hate Speech

4 Adult Sexual
Content

DACTED FOR CONGRESS

Explanation LU

This example should be rated O - Skip, as the string does no
anything recognizably sensitive, and includes foreign langue
does not match the language in which we are currently rati
(English workflow)

 

The string does not appear to be sensitive

 

“Shemale” is an offensive term for a transgender waman
Transgender women fall under a protected category, theref
string is considered Hate Speech. While “shemales in oman’
potential indicate intent to find a sexuai service or adult c
late Speech ranks higher than ASC on the label hierarchy.

The string is sexual in nature
‘The string is sexual in nature

The string is sexual in nature.
“White” and “women” each refer to a protected group, then
is considered hate speech

While “gay’ is not independently sensitive, the string refere
sexual content

aii i eile
 

Example Ratings

Language Suggestion String
: MAM # 4G c= & » seman o tog way nee
chat with best ladies
& shemales in oman
5 lesbian tongue videos
6 gay dickley hole
7 gay fuckvideos
8 whitetrash women
. gay kiss videos only
20 gay teen boys videos
u sex and the city
2 Birls assets
3 japanese massage videos
4 twerkers paradise
as 100: return of xander cage full hd movie
“16 jack 1994
y hayley anderson nester photos
jonathan fields
» es misérables showtimes san francisco
wre

Sensitive Category (it
Label Decision cago
0 Skip .
2 Aeceptable
1+ Sensitive ~ 3+ Hate Speech
‘4 - Adult Sexual
1- Sensitive ~ Adult
1. Sensitive © but Sexual
1 Sensitive © Adult Sexual
1. Sensitive ¥ 3-Hate Speech
4+ Adult Sexual
7 finda * Content

¥ 0+ Child Exploitation

  

2-Acceptable — ¥

2-Acceptable
2-Acceptable — ¥
2-Acceptable
2-Accoptable >

2- Acceptable v

—,

«

‘

<

Explanation

    

The string i m2 language other than the language of the workflow
This example should be rated O- Skip, as the String does not contain
anything recognizably sensitive, and includes foreign language that
does nai match the language in which we are currently rating
(English workflow)

The string does not appear to be sensitive

Shemale’ is an offensive term for a transgender woman
Transgender women fal under a protected category, therefore ths
string 's considered Hate Speech: While “shemales in oman” may

otentially indicate intent to find a sexual service or adult content,
Fate Speech ranks righer than ASC on the label hierarchy

 

 

The string is sexual in nature
The string is sexual in nature

The string is sexual in nature.

“White” and ‘women’ each refer to a protected group, therefore this
's considered hate speech

While “gay” is not independently sensitive, the string references.
sexual content

The string references child sexual exploitation. Since we cannot be
sute “teen” refers to 18 of 19-year olds, the correct category «5 Child
Expioitation

 

The string refers to a mainstream television show.
The string is not explicitly sexual in nature
The string is not explicitly sexual in nature

Aside search shows that there ss a song called “twerkers paradise’. so
this is not considered a sensitive string.

Though "xxx" often refers tg topics of an adult nature, a side search
shows that this string refersta a flm and is not sensitive in nature

The string contains no sensitive content

The string contains a proper name, which does not appear to be the
name of a porn star, or otherwise sensitive in nature

The string contains a proper name, which does not appear to be the
name of a porn star, or otherwise sensitive in nature

The string is @ proper name Although “les misérables” ts French and
the rest of the string is in English, this 1s the title of a famous play and
does not contain anything sensitive

The string is a first name with jast name initial. This is a proper name

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

 
Usnguage ‘Suggestion String Lapel Decision Sensitive Category (If a2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

      

applicable)
Ihe suring fererences criia sexaai expioitaceon: smice we tanner oe
10 gay teen boys videos 1-Sensitive ~ 0-Child Exploitation» sure "teen" refers to 18 or 19-year olds, the correct category is Child
Exploitation,
a sex and the city 7 2- Acceptable . v The string refers to a mainstream television show.
2 gitls assets 2-Acceptable \ The string is not explicitly sexual in nature
B Japanese massage videos 2-Acceptable = ¥ ¥ The string is not explicitly sexual in nature.
; Ces \_ Aside search shows that there is a song called “twerkers paradise”, 50
a Swerkers paradise py Atesptabie this snot considered a sensitive sing”
xandercagetullhid movie aL iS Though “wxx” often refers to topics of an adult nature, a side search
5 vou: return of xander cage fullhd movie 2- Acceptable shows that this string refers to a film and is not sensitive in nature
16 jack 1994 < 2- Acceptable v » The string contains no sensitive content,
of The string contains a proper name, which does not appeartobethe Cf)
at hayley anderson nester photos 2+ Acceptable name of 3 porn star, or otherwise sensitive in nature =
5 The string contains a proper narne, which does not appear to be the
1 jonathan fields 2- Acceptable name of a porn star, or otherwise sensitive in nature. |
The string is @ proper name. Although “les misérables” is French and
19 Jes misérables showtimes san francisco 2. Acceptable - © the rest af the string is in English, this is the title of a famous play and |
does not contain anything sensitive
The string ss a first name with last name initial, This is a proper name
20 michael h 2- Acceptable - which does not appear fo be the name of ¢ porn star, or otherwise
: sensitive in nature
; Taf The string refers to 8 movie which has sexual undertones. However,
2 fitty shades darker 2- Acceptable ¥ ~ this string is nat considered adult content/sexual content. oO
natiswoningin tenagitfowsmeudnot sprorstngewm — OG
Arabic + jpaid jas! - mansoura news 2- Acceptable » English. Both Arabic and English are considered ok to rate in the oO
Arabic workflow The string does not appear to be sensitive in nature.
Arabicspeaking users often search using transiterations. Raters LL
24 Arabic noor al-sabah 2-Acceptable —¥ working in (18n workflows should not skip for English, ar for special
cases of transliteration such as this one. a
The correct spelling is actually “mont-saint-michel’, but even though
th sggenign sting acts cormet pens att” °°"
understandable (i. the meaning has not been altered). This idea
25 French mont saint michel 2-Acceptable also applies to names like “anne-sophie” or “jean-jacques”, which ke
hhave hyphens, but would stil be considered non-sensitive proper
names oO
The string is missing the proper accents, but this does not change the <I
meaning of the text, which does not appear sensitive in nature. Oo
2- Acceptable = ¥. © The same idea applies to a String such as “cafe” when rating in French.
a | Sree ne ape a grbutch for example Even though the correct speting seafe LL
including an accent, we can still understand that the meaning af the
string is not sensitive. ~w
27 Indonesian igo live telanjang 1 Sensitive Sy cc dun Seat \ The string indicates intent to seek sexual content ("naked")

‘The string is missing the proper accents, but this does not change the
meaning of the text, which does not appear sensitive in nature:

tu ¥ The same idea applies to a string such as “cafe” when rating in Frenchy
2% Romanian maria cret 2- Acceptable siden applies to a string such as cate: « a

ees Dutch for example. Even though the cored! spalling ae

 

 
Typeahead integrity Rating Guidelines v2.0 (08/07/; 2019) GED

ad

‘suppsition Stor
ay Teh BoA Wi

sexcand tho city
pirlvasens

Japanese massage videos
tivethiers paraise

joa. rotuin of rander cage full hid movie
nck 1998

nayiey andersan nester photos

fits

 

jonas

los misdrables showtimes san francisco

mich

fifty shades darker

wbie

bic

vipa sae mansoure news

o0t al-saban

mont saint eichel

Avec Mapa

{pet Oren

2 Senstve

2+ Acceptable
2- Acceptable
2-Acceptable

2- Acceptable «

2- Acceptable
2-Acceptable

2- Acceptable

2- Acceptable

2- Acceptable

2- Acceptable

2 Acceptable

2- Acceptable

2- Acceptable

2. Acceptable

 

station

explanation
crite

 

sure “teen” Feters to TE oF TH year olds, the corrset Category
Explostatioe

<T 10.4 mainsttearn tetevisvon show

   

The sting, 1s Not expitestly sexual in nature

The string is not expleitly sexual in nature

  

 

{site search shows that there
topics of an adult nature, aside search
to A film and ¥s hot sensitive in nature

 

ong called "twerkers paradise”, 30

 

 

© The string contains no sensitive content

 

“The string contains 9 proper name. which does not appear to be the
fame of 9 porn star or atherwse sensitive m nature

‘he string contains a proper name, which does nat appear to be the

ame of a porn star or otherwise sensitive in mature

The string ia proper name Although “les misérables” is French and
© the rest of the string isin English this s the title of a famous play anc

does not contain anything sensitiv

The stang, ame wath last name initial This Isa proper name
Which dees not appear to be the name of a porn star, or otherwise

Sensitive n nature.

 

 

     

   

 

The string refers to a movie which has sexual undertones. However
this stung © not considered adult cantent/sexuzal content

call =a
Roters working in 18n workflows should not

» English Both Arabic and English are consid
Arabic watkfiow The strag dons Hot appear to be

 

 

 

op for strings with
ed’ok to rate in the
satwe m nature

    

 

 

 

Arabic speaking wiers atten search wing eansiterations Raters
© working in iin workflows should not skip for English, oF for special
Eases of transteration such as thys one.

 

  

   

siz0 apphes to names like “anne sophie. or jean.
have hyphens, but would stil be considered Nen-sensitive proper

 

‘The string is missing the proper accents, but this does not change the
meaning of the test, which does not appear sensitive mn nature

 

 

~The same ies applies to aktrng such as “cafe” wen rating in French
Erbach Yor example, Eversnough tne covet apesing 5 eae
including an accert, ve can stl understand thatthe meariing of the

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

Ww fe S Mein

 

fergation

 

[REPRECATED) [CURRENT]

‘Typeahead Integrity Rating
Guidelines v2.0 (98/07/2019)

 

[CURRENT] [DEPRECATAED]
Typeahead Integrity Rating
Guidelines v2,0 (68/67/2029)
 

Bi integrity on-call action e.

Il Typeahead team action

no

ee Le eet yes
policy violating?

 

eee aan Ua tas eee ee eld

BT After clarification deemed to be violating, aL dL

or decide we should update policy

   

Are we

bg nag
ciel taC Bcd et |
Ure
bor stelir]s)
SERP?

Btocklist/ [i Keyword
Car Bed
Integrity on-call take

TDs yal ale)
Truly

 

  
 
 
 

   
 

Dr Tscg
ality

  
 
  

OMe ge a ae)
Dea Tae

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

   

 
HE (Search) uploaded a file in the group: Search Integrity - Climate
Change Escalation.
July 22, 2020 -@

Purpose:
Creating this group to coordinate and manage all responses for the potential risk of Climate

Change misinfo for Search. o
wY
Lu
Context: x
There has a few public press incidents (Vox, NYTimes) this past week about FB's stanceon Z
climate change, and we've been getting direction from org leads to ensure Search is high Oo
quality on this topic. - oO
oa
Oo
Planned Actions for Policy Review: 5
https://fb.quip.com/5tfAAASZ9WFZ Ww
ke
Oo
Climate Change - Search Integrity Response a
Quip Ww
a
O«6 3 Comments 1 Share Seen by 27
a) Like @> Share
a |e are ready to pull the trigger. Please let us know if you're ok with this
approach.
Like - 42w
= 7 - FYI, plan to apply blue-verified filtering on climate change videos
Like 42w O32

FYI | am proposing the following regexes to Wordy block (will wait for policy
approval):

* .(.climate change/climate change.).
* .(.global warming/global warming.).
SEMEN AS:

There has a few public press incidents (Vox, NY
climate change, and we've been getting directio'
quality on this topic.

Times) this past week about FB's stance on
n from org leads to ensure Search is high

Planned Actions for Policy Review:
https://fb. uip.com/5tfAAASZOWFZ

Climate Change - Search Integrity Response

@  auip
oO 6 3 Contments 1 Share Seen by 27
> Like @ Share
- we are ready to pull the trigger. Please let us know if you're ok with this
approach.
Like 42w
a | | FYI, plan to apply blue-verified filtering on climate change videos
Like - 42w 032 B
oo
FYI | am proposing the following regexes to Wordy block (will wait for policy Oo
approval): z
* .(.climate change/climate change.). 3
* .(.global warming/global warming.). w
© .(.#globalwarming|#globalwarming.). o
© .(4#climatechange|#climatechange.). Q
© .(.#climatereality/#climatereality.). Lu
to turn off suggestions/hashtags related to global warming or climate change Oo
except the exact match. <
cc wit like to know your opinion on this! im
Like 42w Edited x
Chats
Climate Change - Search Integrity Response
Quip

3 Comments 1 Share Seen by

O«6
a) Like @ Share
;_— . ee
we are ready to pull the trigger. Please let us know if you're ok with this
approach.

Like 42w .

fs FYI, plan to apply blue-verified filtering on climate change videos

Like 42w 09
0

FYI | am proposing the following regexes to Wordy block (will wait for policy
approval):

¢ .(.climate change/climate change.).

¢ .(.global warming|global warming.).

¢ .(.#globalwarming|/#globalwarming.).
¢ .(.#climatechange|#climatechange.).
¢ .(.#climatereality/#climatereality.).

to turn off suggestions/hashtags related to global warming or climate change
except the exact match.

cc will like to know your opinion on this!

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

Like . 42w - Edited

» Climate Science Information Center (CSIC) FYI
February 9 - & .

Climate Science Search Query POC
