 

a

ee aaa SSS Se a ie = =a = = alle i ‘i L ae Pe > ee ee

—F
€

at a oi

 

 

Legitimacy measurement part 1:

| Understanding users and stakeholders’

a a ee eh a Lee oo a oe

Bo

    

*«

EDACTED FOR CONGRESS

R

 

itimacy measurement strategy. 1 Chats | 3
a ~ Be
ra

k

 

The mission of the CI Legitimacy Team team is to help shape the overarching strategy tor

increasing legitimacy of our integrity efforts and develop the measurement framework for

tracking legitimacy with people and stakeholders.

This series of three notes will present the legitimacy measurement strategy. In order to
measure perceived legitimacy we need to first understand how people currently view our
integrity efforts. This first note presents research that invest gated (1) users’ perceptions of

our integrity efforts and (2) external stakeholders’ perceptions of our integrity efforts.

The second note will present proposed principles for building legitimacy with people based
on external research, internal research, and product strategy. The third note will present the
development of the LEGIT survey to measure progress with users and the general population

as well as how we are tracking public sentiment with stakeholders.

TL;DR

1. Users don't trust us to do the right thing because they believe we prioritize revenue and
growth over safety and society |

: _ Se Chats

OOD) perce @} On ten regulation system as le¢ nate

FREDACTED FOR CONGRESS

 
Zz
TL;DR

1. Users don’t trust us to do the right thing because they believe we prioritize revenue and

growth over safety and society

9. Users don’t perceive our content regulation system as legitimate because they don't

trust our motivations, perceive our system to be ineffective and biased toward minority

groups, and believe that we don’t understand or listen to our users

3. There are opportunities to increase legitimacy with users by building trust in the brand

through product experiences, ensuring we aren't biased toward certain groups, and

empowering users to control their own experience

4. In addition to disagreeing and being concerned about our approach to integrity, many

external stakeholders either aren’t aware of our efforts or don’t understand parts of our

systems

5. There are opportunities to increase legitimacy with stakeholders by developing scaled

education programs, telling a more cohesive and understandable narrative that is easily

discoverable and shareable, and building integrity products that are defensible

1. Users’ perceptions of our integrity efforts

Three, three-hour research sessions were conducted in Seattle with groups of actors (n = 6),
reporters (n = 9) and general users (n = 11): These sessions investigated what users:are
currently experiencing, perceiving, or hearing about that form their perceptions of our

integrity efforts. Participants were diverse with regard to gender, race, and age.

Chats

 

~Y
~Y
LU
id
0
Z
O
O
or
O
LL
a
LU
O
=
a
LU
Biz
‘hour research sessions were conducted in Seattle with groups of actors (n = 6),

Three, three
= 11). These sessions investigated what users are

reporters (n = g) and general users (n
or hearing about that form their perceptions of our

age.

currently experiencing, perceiving,

integrity efforts. Participants were diverse with regard to gender, race, and

Re Perceptions of Facebook’s integrity efforts tend to be negative

Dear Facebook, You've become a breeding
ground for hate, disinformation, and
scams. This is dangerous and you're
turning a blind eye to it— and most likely
profiting at the same time

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

 
 

Users visualized the current state of content regulation as dark, messy, and money-driven.

Their ideal state was depicted as bright, positive, representative of all people, and organized.

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

All participants indicated FB has become more negative, hostile, and violent, gp,

ats

   
2
and money-driven.

 

alized the current state of content regulation as dark, messy,
presentative of all people, and organized.

lent since they joined

‘ Users visu
"Their ideal state was depicted as bright, positive, re

- all participants indicated FB has become more negative, hostile, and vio
ontent regulation system is not working or

the platform. This was a signal to them that our c

[ effective.

eS

| The following four themes emerged explaining why users’ have a negative perception of our
_ integrity efforts. / . oy )

1 | Users don't trust us to do the right thing because they believe we prioritize

Dear Facebook, te can't take it any more.
You keep feeding me and billions of others
a whole bunch of lies and crap that 1s
r designed to influence people and spread
conspiracies. You get paid very well
to do this and because of that have

not taken the necessary measures
to da sahahoomnasin it. You welcome it.

mea TE
ee ee pi > bac z j gia pe } iJ Cg lat: > ore eae

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

su

 
a
a
b

Because users don’t trust FB due to past incidents, they don't believe we have good intentions
or motivations when it comes to integrity efforts. Many users don't think we are actually
trying to remove bad content and accounts because we care more about increasing

engagement and growth than protecting people and society. This belief harms the

legitimacy of our integrity efforts immensely.
Recommendations:

¢ Continue to invest in restoring trust in the FB brand. Efforts to increase legitimacy of

content regulation may need to include efforts to also increase trust in FB as a whole.

. ° Build trust by ensuring what we ship shows care and is defensible to regulators,

S auditors, and our users
a e Put greater prioritization on reducing harm and bad experiences

ES e Invest in ways to actively demonstrate to users and stakeholders that we are committed
& to reducing harm both in-product (e.g., make it easier for users to report) and externally

(e.g., highlight the good work we do to prevent CEI across tech)

2 | Users believe we are biased toward and silencing minority voices due to our
moderation practices

BADASS W >MEN ,
| WwW, wt | _ “Between your clearly racist
) and misogynistic |
‘moderation’ to your
laughable appeals -

J Chats

   
 
 
  

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

     
r

2 | Users believe we are biased toward and silencing minority voices due to our

moderation practices

“Between your clearly racist
and misogynistic
‘moderation to your
laughable appeals process,
there is a reason you are
called RACEBOOK. Clearly
I am not included in the
community you claim to
protect.”

 

 

Users who self-described as being LGBTQ or Black believed that FB is censoring and over-
enforcing on minority groups. Participants described being banned for speaking out to their

communities about their lived experiences and condemning hate.

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

 
—_—_— RM a a SIE

| |

f POC and marginalized groups are barely
| able to stay afloat in an environment that
doesn't understand the minority
experience.

They attributed this to our policies and systems being designed by White upper/ middle class

people who don’t understand minority experiences. Many participants acknowledged much

of this enforcement is done by automation and algorithms but believe that the people who

have built the algorithms are at best naive and at worst racist.

Recommendations:

e Conduct audits of actions taken on content posted by people of color, to verify if we are
disproportionally actioning against one demographic’s content

e Increase the representation of people from minority groups in our building process

e Ensure that any system we ship is not biased against certain groups (e.g., SAIL efforts).

3 | Users want more control over their experience and a way to help improve the

system

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

  
_ 3 | Users want more control over their experience and a way to help improve the

_ system

“FB should empower
us to choose instead of
labeling what kind of
audience they think
we are.”

 

ie ne

a

Our global user base is never going to agree with all of our policies and enforcement
decisions. Instead, we should empower users to improve their own experience by giving them
more control over what they see (and don’t see). Users agree we should take a stance and
remove what is universally thought of as bad or illegal (e.g., CEI, terrorism, violence,
harassment) but leave it up to them to decide the rest. This would take some of the strain off

of creating a content regulation system that is agreed upon by everyone.

Users feel like FB doesn’t listen to its community because they have no way to give us

feedback and express their point of view. For example, appeals are generally _ Chats

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
EL 0's SGU SSUES ce
Lae ne

 

-—

Our global user base is never going to agree with all of our policies and enforcement

decisions. Instead, we should empower users to improve their own experience
more control over what they see (and don't see). Users agree we should take a stance and
remove what is universally thought of as bad or illegal (e.g., CEL, terrorism, violence,

harassment) but leave it up to them to decide the rest. This would take some of the strain off

by giving them

of creating a content regulation system that is agreed upon by everyone.

Users feel like FB doesn’t listen to its community because they have no way to give us
feedback and express their point of view. For example, appeals are generally thought of as a
way to express disagreement with a decision by an institution. However, users don’t view our

appeal system as legitimate because they perceive it as just clicking a button that goes

nowhere.
Recommendations:

e Give users more control over what they see (and don’t see). For example, users wanted
one newsfeed tab for “lighter” organic content from friends and family and another tab
for shared news articles and non-organic content. One user didn’t want to see any

r borderline graphic violence close to when she was going to bed. Other internal research
also provides evidence for user controls such as content covers. Other research indicates

users want the ability to dial up misinfo control (e.g., choose to have misinfo removed

from their feed) but not dial it down (i.e., remove misinfo labels).

e Investigate ways we can we incorporate user feedback at scale such as Oversight Board

case advocacy and community feedback

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

a | ¢ Understand how rank and respond might further threaten the perceived |

Chats

 
mR a

users want tne ability to dial up misinio control (e.g., choose tO nave misinto removed

from their feed) but not dial it down (i.e., remove misinfo labels).

« Investigate ways we can we incorporate user feedback at scale such as Oversight Board

case advocacy and community feedback

¢ Understand how rank and respond might further threaten the perceived legitimacy of

our appeals system and investigate how to increase trust and acceptance of automation

4 | Users aren’t buying that content regulation is a hard and complex problem

You created this platform and wanted
this growth. You are responsible for
moderating it, no matter what time, tools,
and expertise it takes. FB has the expertise
and money why can‘ they do it?

Though some participants acknowledged content moderation is difficult at scale, many
viewed moderation as a cost of doing business. Because FB is a multi-billion dollar company,

many users believe we could solve the problems with content moderation we just choose not
to (see theme one).

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

 
 

i Sa

Though some participants acknowledged content moderation is difficult at scale, many

viewed moderation as a cost of doing business. Because FB is a multi-billion dollar company,

many users believe we could solve the problems with content moderation we just choose not

to (see theme one).

Recommendations:

¢ The narrative that content regulation is difficult and complex might not land well with
users. Instead we should understand if focusing on highlighting what we are doing to

address problems would be more effective. For example, users tend to feel positively
toward content warning screens and misinfo labels because it concretely shows the user

FB is doing something.

We will continue to understand where we are falling short with people and how problem and
foundations teams can ensure they are building legitimacy into their products and processes.
Additionally, the IX team (formally actor and reporter experiences) has a long history of and
continues to understand and build experiences that increase supportiveness and procedural

fairness among actors and reporters.

2. Stakeholders’ perceptions of our integrity efforts

Investigating external stakeholders’ (i.e., policy, civil society, academics, and the media)
perceptions of our integrity efforts is more challenging as it is difficult to reach these
audiences directly. In H2 2019 we took a pulse on where these audiences generally stand on
key integrity topics by aggregating insights from our internal policy and com1 ;

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

=
2. Stakeholders’ perceptions of our integrity efforts

Investigating external stakeholders’ (i.e., policy, civil society, academics, and the media)
perceptions of our integrity efforts is more challenging as it is difficult to reach these
audiences directly. In H2 2019 we took a pulse on where these audiences generally stand on

key integrity topics by aggregating insights from our internal policy and comms partners. See

the full table here.

Stakeholders’ top areas of concerns include offline harms, how/if we incorporate feedback,
trust in the company, soft actions, procedural justice, US-centric policies, and misinfo. In
addition to disagreeing and being concerned about our approach to integrity, many
stakeholders either aren’t aware of our efforts (e.g., that we publicly release our enforcement
rates in the CSER; that we work with law enforcement) or don’t understand parts of our
systems (e.g., how we use machine learning to quickly remove content; how our policies are

formed).

These findings highlight the need for us to develop a scaled program to educate
stakeholders about our content moderation practices to help support the

CIEE 0: enough signal

 

ag

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
jakeholders' top concerns and points of confusion — BiSSeeation Policies US- don't vary by

jedia Journalists
ow Polio ypulators
tagemics/Civil Society Groups

=

 

Not enough signal

 

Yellow Stakeholder is unaware

Opportunities to Increase Legitimacy with
Stakeholders:

   
   
 

Stakeholder has some awareness of Hiiae i HU une

policies and integrity work, but feel e Increase awareness of the good work we do and
confused or uninformed. HUTT REST
41 al it Wi a | ! ‘ how we do it

 
 
   

 
   
 
  
 
 
    
       

ware of policies and
nd disagreeswith |
ned about them. | UT

  

.ent/concern and build
uding stakeholders in the
our products and policies A

vo
"Transparency ( )

  
 

bP i) Tobin Wea ae Rationale
oT ae ibe _ behind our How News = scale and
ware of rer a How policies — decisions ndother’ | o&%
2 contri tions of areenforced (eg.policies, S70 0S of co aa
|| Receptions of." enforcement sear moderation
_ transparency data released)

PTE Wee a a |
Wineaee kor __ Concern: Policies

I fair? centric country

  
  

 

HS NAM lh a

I (| i F
‘|
a Hd et < hon
| \ Sy
! | Pe Au Wl ly

   

re. f ‘ WAM UN LA
MRA ica cera rege ees Mas reenact

PSE a Pg ase Sede MALAI Mee Conger eer isons ISU ele Ue seco) | 1oe
e Decrease confusion resulting in inaccurate

Stakeholder is aware of policies and conclusions and folk theories

integrity work, and disagrees with
them/is concerned about them.

e Reduce disagreement/concern and build

advocates by including stakeholders in the

Stakeholder accepts / understands a is pol
our approach A development of our products and policies

Stakeholder endorses ou r approach _

a EAE SAA
qe al He
EER

il

Hit

  

 

 
 
   
    

 
 
 
  

  
 
  
   

  

Procedural case pie 4
“justice in _—-*FB is biased
i against —

bot Catia “Conservative:

eames tut Concern: Policies

yy Process "Or policies US- don't vary by _ pp
—S centric = country laws ‘aa

Cox
Sta

  
         
   
 

 

  
 
  

 

CTED FOR

 

e needs and areas of concern —

of content will be the most

a

    

 

 

 

 
   

| i
i! |

TL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

will present the development of the LEGIT survey to measure progress with users and the

general population as well as how we are tracking public sentiment with stakeholders.

 

 

 

29 Comments ® Snares

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

  
a

‘ Like J Comment ¢Y Share LJ

Pret

 
   
  
 

Like - Reply - ly

one word: powerful

© 1

  
  
  
 
  

Like - Reply - ly

@ *Cover photo is a participant's depiction of the current state of content regulation on FB. According to the
participant, the dinosaur represents how angry users are and the person at the computer is FB's moderators completely

overwhelmed *#
OD* 5

Like - Reply - ly

thanks for the write ur for the stakeholder understanding, and the learning about lack of awareness, —
with transparency hub vision, are we starting to look at how to distribute the info/trainings on more of a push model, finding

forums that best work for them? Consolidating all info in the central transparency portal is a great first step, but we may
need something more proactive to take it further O

Like - Reply - ly

7 a: Totally agree Having a centralized, understandable, and transparent (but passive) artifact Is Y)
necessary but not sufficient. Currently, Y)

there is no "one stop shop" for any interested parties to understand our
approach to content regulation (e.g., CSs live on one site, advertiser rules on another, and Page/publisher rules onLL]
another: important information about our efforts living in blog posts). If stakeholders even discover these pieces wey

force them to put together their own narrative. (1

We definitely plan to work with our internal policy and comms friends to understand the best push model and how

maximize and scale impact. We also hope to build in different engagement models (e.g., maybe draft policy
commentary opportunities, maybe a part of the portal that's only accessible to trusted stakeholders who can referC)

additional stakeholders to us) to bring more people into the process. ©

Like - Reply - 1y ,

PE \.<:ecivly helpful write up! Regarding the table of stakeholders, can you point me to any resource that lists '®)
the academic/ civil society groups we are referencing + how we prioritized them?

   

    

Like - Reply - ly

a --We are hoping to build out a more robust process to regularly gather and aggregate insights
K

at a more precise stakeholder level via employees who own these relationships. Aggregating the qualitative feedba
employees across the company are gathering from stakeholders could be super valuable to understand where

stakeholders stand and provide direction and strategy for integrity teams.

 

ACTED°F

For this quick pulse we relied on insights from our policy and comms partners who summarized the sentiment, top C)
concerns, and points of confusion from the stakeholders their teams engage with. This included people from civil | | |

society groups, policy folks, journalists/media, and academics but can't distill out exactly wh
referencing. _ 3 Chats Y

= i . .
aii aa at le ee eel aca efecto z

 

 

 

a= - = Se a

 
ie !

A

Like - Reply ly

i helpful write up! Regarding the table of stakeholders, can you point me to any resource that lists out
the academic/ civil society groups we are referencing + how we prioritized them? O

Like - Reply - ly

ee are hoping to build out a more robust process to regularly gather and aggregate insights
at a more precise stakeholder level via employees who own these relationships. Aggregating the qualitative feedback
| here

employees across the company are gathering from stakeholders could be super valuable to understand w

  

our policy and comms partners who summarized the sentiment, top
rs their teams engage with. This included people from civil
demics but can't distill out exactly which groups they are

For this quick pulse we relied on insights from
concerns, and points of confusion from the stakeholde

society groups, policy folks, journalists/media, and aca

referencing.

Like - Reply - 1y - Edited

- ee thanks so much! Long term, it would be really helpful to understand 1) the types of Civil
Society Groups and academics that are the most vocal for each subtopic (ie: protecting ppl when we move to
This info would

encryption) + 2) where we as a company are most interested in moving the needle on perception.

help us prioritize how we build solutions across problem types.

ople of color are two key stakeholders that are most

know want to shift their perception on this, that would help

concerned about fairness in community standards + we
human trafficking moving forward.

us more effectively prioritize projects/programming around

Happy to chat more about this if you have q's!

nderstand these themes and target our work more effectively is super
whose teams manage these stakeholder relationships would have the

©?

® Definitely agree being able tou

    
 

  

important!
most insight into your points (1) an

Like - Reply - Ty

- Write a reply... | or

 

ee for R&R + Overall Support research
Or

Like - Reply - ly

| 20: youl" this note! Really helpful for our work on the Oversight Board

Like - Reply - ly

 

  

‘from.PEW: https://www.pewresearch,org/.../few-americans-are... is Chats

   

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
- ee: R&R + Overall Support research
Like - Reply - ly

_ a 20: youl for this note! Really helpful for our work on the Oversight Board
|

Like - Reply : ly

BE convenient timing from PEW: https://www.pewresearch.org/.../few-americans-are.../...

 

 

lt
ve",* @

   

Like Reply “ly

Like - Reply - Ty

e- Our global user base is never going to agree with all of our policies and enforcement decisions. Instead,
we should empower users to improve their own experience by giving them more control over what they see (and don't see).
Users agree we should take a stance and remove what is universally thought of as bad or illegal (e.g., CEI, terrorism,

violence, harassment) but leave it up to them to decide the rest. This would take some of the strain off of creating a content
regulation system that is agreed upon by everyone.

 

 

this is quite reasonable. do you know if there is any appetite within the company for an approach like this?

Like - Reply - ly - Edited

 

ae > | think there's awareness of it (IX team has research on user controls) but I’m not sure if anything is
being built at the moment. There's also warning screens to cover borderline graphic violence and misinfo labels.

Like - Reply - ly

* a what is —_ _ of as bad or illegal, while leaving the rest of moderation up to the users to decide?

 
 

ok, so there's awareness. what about making it so that we take a stance and remove only

Like - Reply - ly

    
  

eee measurement focused on integrity/content

Like - Reply - ty °

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
LIAS Aopry ry
ee. so there's awareness. what about making it so that we take a stance and rerrove only
le leaving the rest of moderation up to the users to decide?

what is universally thought of as bad or illegal, whi

 

Like - Reply - ly

re: US survey data from Pew weighted to be representative of the population strongly reinforce some of the
qualitative research findings in the note

e 74% express little or no confidence in tech companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google to prevent the misuse of their
platforms to influence the 2020 presidential election
° 78% say these companies have a responsibility to prevent misuse

EY] measurement focused on integrity/content

©:

 

   

See More

 

Like - Reply - ly - Formatted

ee this is such interesting research, thank you & It would be amazing to have a redux

(summary or presentation) of this in one of our Cl all hands or perhaps a roadshow of it - selfishly - for integrity teams.
While many of us intuit the difficult relationship between access to data (to enable integrity) and legitimacy (the perception
this is ok, ok for us), | don't think many of us can delineate it in the context of the existing mistrust.

   

Like - Reply - ly

- a heads up-- you tagged the wrong Emily o
© 1

Like - Reply - ly

es

Like - Reply - ly

E200) to share more! Let me know how | can best plug in.

Like - Reply - ly

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
ESE

EE happy to share more! Let me know how | can best plug in

Like Reply

 

ee ” eres _ “us =

Like - Reply: ly

 

a Is there a definition of legitimacy somewhere?

Like - Reply - ly Oud :

- ee «: 2 (coming soon!) will cover this more in- -depth but TL;DR:

) From a policing/government perspective, legitimacy !s the belief that an entity should be able to make and
enforce rules and that people should follow these rules

2) From an organizational perspective, legitimacy is the belief that an organization's actions are appropriate and
desirable within society's norms and values

 

 

e We of course want people to believe (1) and want people to follow our Community Standards but we know from
survey data and qualitative research insights most users already agree "yeah, you're a private company you Can
make your own rules/do what you want" so measuring (1) isn't super informative or valuable.

e However, we know from research people don't tend to agree with our rules, how we enforce them, how we treat
users, that what we do is effective etc. This is in line with definition (2) and thus, measuring these perceptions is

t more impactful AND we can actually do something about these things.

Like - Reply - ly - Formatted

ee such powerful insights on how users perceive the legitimacy of our integrity systems

Like - Reply - ly

ee series has great inspiration for a campaign educating people on feed
controls and transparency

©:

Like - Reply - ly

  

Like - Reply - ly

 

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
