ao
Acore team of dedicated product, engineering, and design Facebookers are tackling the most
glaring problems with what happened: increasing verification procedures for US political
advertisers, exposing the funding source of political ads, making active ads available
regardless of targeting, and publicly archiving political ads as they run. We are taking initial
steps to prioritize civility above other objectives in this space, but we can go even further

use the existing framework for how our ads system works to empower people with

information:

1) Allow political education and campaign
funders to more clearly self-declare their
financial support for specific messages.

Version 1 of our political ad rendering has advertisers enter a “paid for by” on individual ads
run by individual ad accounts. From our research thus far, most of the advertisers in this
space are worried less about being identified with their strongly-held views and more about
unintentionally running afoul of the law. How do we let organizations more visibly and
consistently self-identify as campaign or independent expenditure organizations across
entire campaigns or elections, and do so at the ad set, ad campaign or business level?

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

2) Provide delivery advantages f ,...,

gae-6 2
  

Social Engineering and Political Ads

Ye THURSDAY, MAY 10, 2018 - READING TIME: 4 MINUTES e

How to use the influential power of ads to empower people to make better-informed

decisions about political ads, have well thought-out views and be more aware of dubious or

unreliable sources.

In the Facebook Ads world, we seek to make meaningful connections between people and
businesses. And more specifically JE publicly declared our advertising principles

last November. One of those principles reads:
Chats

4

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

 
ae

Advertising should be safe and
civil; it should not divide or
discriminate.

At the same time, polarization is an important marketing strategy made manifest in the
creative, messaging, and targeting of ads. We don’t want to discourage segmentation
strategies on the part of our advertisers as a whole, which for many small and medium-sized

businesses starting with a particular niche is a prerequisite for entering growth mode.

We have to countenance these two realities in Business Integrity. We enforce ad policies for
the sake of Facebook and it’s users, while doing our best to at least provide and at best

enhance advertiser value. However, we've recently come into an intense amount of scrutiny
for the lack of specific policies about political ads from both regulators and Facebook users.

Many articles have discussed how was how Russian online influence in US elections worked
at least back in 2016 if not earlier: the use of “influence operations.” At its core, this was an
abuse of the openness our our platform, on both the organic and Ads side, in order to divide
and undermine confidence in the election process and American civil society more broadly.

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS
2) Provide delivery advantages for
informative political ads over divisive and
hateful ones.

The challenge here is a technical and design challenge, but not an insurmountable one. How
can we use aggregate feedback and/or modeling to give ads that inform users about a
particular side of a political question an advantage in delivery? We stand to benefit on user
sentiment about ads and to promote quality revenue. This effort would also give upstart
political advertisers with high-quality content access to ad inventory and address valid

criticisms that divisive ad messages are cheap and easily spread.

3) Start a recurring political ads
transparency report to hold ourselves
accountable to the public, including product
launches and global performance.

The largest part of Facebook's optics problem with political ads is the lack of public and
regulatory awareness of proactive and reactive efforts taking place at the company. We can
and should highlight major victories in political ad enforcement, good actors making our
platform better and ongoing efforts we're committed to bringing on Chats

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

 
3) Start a recurring political ads
transparency report to hold ourselves
accountable to the public, including product
launches and global performance.

The largest part of Facebook's optics problem with political ads is the lack of public and
regulatory awareness of proactive and reactive efforts taking place at the company. We can
and should highlight major victories in political ad enforcement, good actors making our
platform better and ongoing efforts we're committed to bringing online. We have a
transparency report— https: //transparency.facebook.com/government/ —for exposing the
number of takedown requests we get from governments around the world, why not begin
offering a public-facing, clear and sincere update on where we've succeeded and where we

have to grow with political ads transparency?

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

 
 

One step at a time

We have started on the long journey to rebuild trust and have both users and governments
regain confidence in the integrity of ads served on our platform. This is an opportunity to
manifest our stated priorities, be transparent without penalizing good actors and help
external observers properly scrutinize if we live up to our commitments or not.

Ow.
wo Like oO Comment a Share A Save

a Write a comment...

REDACTED FOR CONGRESS

©
